# ABROGAIL THRUNE II

# ABROGAIL THRUNE II

# QUEEN OF CHELIAX LE FEMALE HUMAN SORCERER The Thrice-Damned House of Thrune brought order to a bleeding and chaotic nation, ending the Chelaxian Civil War in 4640 AR, but its scions could never maintain order among their own. While the nation submitted to a stringent and brutal law enforced by the Hellknights, House Thrune and its allies churned through intrigues and sabotage behind closed doors. Abrogail Thrune II, future queen of Cheliax, was born in 4692 AR, and named by her mother to invoke the power and longevity of her own grandmother, Queen Abrogail I, whose three decades of rule were legendary. However, as each of the five monarchs to wear the Crown of Infernal Majesty, including Abrogail I, met with untimely ends, Abrogail II learned early to trust nothing—nothing except Hell.

Abrogail's devotion to Asmodeus began early, out of necessity amid the turmoil of a home life marked by scheming diabolism, or perhaps from comprehending that, like all Thrun es, she was already damned. It's said that Asmodeus himself responded by sending a winged devil, **Contessa Lrilatha** (LE female erinys), to tutor her. Young Abrogail quickly proved herself to be remarkably smart and even more devious, training with her inborn magical ability to become a powerful sorcerer in a few short years. Charismatic and visually striking, Abrogail mastered the art of manipulating others for her own gain. Abrogail would occasionally appear to be caught up in a romance or taken with a new celebrity, but such fancies were never unmotivated. The calculations behind all of her actions, even in adolescence, were in the name of power. But, in House Thrune, power is the only means to ensure survival.

When yet another tragic death ended the reign of Infrexus Thrune in 4709 AR, Abrogail became the infernal majestrix, absolute ruler of Cheliax, at 17 years of age. Her word carries the full weight of law, although it is far from immutable. In fact, she frequently changes her mind and has her former edicts erased from the books of Chelaxian history; overnight, even the direst decrees become outdated and are no longer enforced. Keenly aware of her reputation as being immature, capricious, and demanding, Abrogail cleverly uses this image to keep those who underestimate her off-balance. Yet she controls the fractious noble houses and byzantine bureaucracy of Cheliax predominantly through fear. Against those who offend her personally, her favorite punishment is petrification—an eternity in stone under her watchful eye in the Imperial Palace. These ornamental traitors further serve to remind every visitor, courtier, slave, and fiend of the majestrix's supreme authority. figure: A hand holding a golden, ornate sword with a crossguard shaped like bat wings. The sword is positioned vertically, and the hand is visible from the left side of the image. The figure is placed to the left of the text, partially overlapping the first few lines.

Even so, Abrogail's rule has faced stronger challenges to Cheliax than any since her great-grandmother's reign. Abrogail I saw the rebellions of the vassal states of Andoran and Galt; Abrogail II has fought against rebellions in Ravounel and Westcrown, with mixed results. While her forces stamped out the so-called Glorious Reclamation in Westcrown, Abrogail was forced to cede independence to Ravounel, and has failed to reclaim the former colony of Vidrian, which she still petulantly calls Sargava. These defeats are a still-festering wound as she ceaselessly contemplates how to extend her influence in the Inner Sea region.

# BLOODY REPRISALS Though Abrogail's recent defeats have emboldened some of her enemies, those dissidents who operate in and around Cheliax are keenly aware these setbacks have bruised the queen's ego more than her power. Though forced to accept Ravounel's independence, Abrogail's victory in Westcrown was far more significant than many realize. In addition to creating the *Inferno Gate*, a portal to Hell that has allowed Cheliax to summon legions of devils to serve at the queen's command, Abrogail's agents also crushed the powerful

warriors of good that fought in the Glorious Reclamation. Terrified citizens whisper of the souls and bodies of dead champions and celestials given over to the lords of Hell, and of more terrifying fates awaiting prisoners taken alive: sale to the shadow-sworn land of Nidal. Worse yet are tales of the queen offering refugees from the Gravelands safety if they agree to sign contracts of indentured servitude, then trading these contracts to Nidal's priests of Zon-Kuthon in exchange for unknown favors.

Abrogail's most recent triumph was seizing the opportunity to massacre the church of Iomedae in Egorian for "seditious activity." In a proclaimed act of solidarity against Tar-Baphon, Abrogail offered the clergy a sign of her good will: *Heart's Edge*, the sword that Iomedae wielded before ascending to godhood, which Abrogail had claimed as spoils of war from the Glorious Reclamation. Yet a subtle trap in the legal conditions for the exchange tricked Iomedae's faithful into inadvertently breaking the agreement and thereby committing treason, giving Abrogail free reign to slaughter them with the sword of their own goddess. The queen likewise executed those church members brave enough to speak out in protest, and she keeps the sword as a trophy by the side of her throne, still coated in the dried blood of Iomedae's servants.

While Cheliax's capital of Egorian is firmly under Abrogail's thumb, the Order of the Scourge Hellknights, led by Lictor Toulon Vidoc, are a notable exception. During the rapid successions of previous Thrune monarchs, these Hellknights took the opportunity to consolidate a good deal of power throughout the city. Abrogail has often faced opposition from the Order of the Scourge, and now Lictor Vidoc is investigating the recent turmoil in Cheliax. Vidoc earnestly believes that Abrogail contributed to the recent rebellions, and perhaps even staged them for her own political or financial gain. Infuriated by the mere suggestion, and especially enraged by what she sees as Vidoc's swaggering arrogance, Abrogail has contacted Jakalyn of the Red Mantis assassins. Jakalyn responded by publicly announcing her assassins would eliminate certain targets that remain untouchable through normal political channels.

This isn't the only time Jakalyn has contacted Abrogail. The queen recently contacted the Red Mantis with a request to eliminate the Rahadoumi healer Kassi Aziril. Deeply offended by Kassi's godless philosophies and concerned that they will attract adherents in Cheliax, Abrogail declared Kassi blasphemous against Iomedae and Asmodeus. But to Abrogail's surprise, Jakalyn reached out and informed the queen she had voided the contract. Taking things into her own hands, Abrogail issued a public excruciation order—a process of public torture and humiliation (and in some cases, execution)—against Kassi, should she be found inside Cheliax at any time.

Abrogail also has standing excruciation orders for Magdelena and Martum Fallows and any of their operatives in the Bellflower Network or their allies among the Firebrands, such as the Sapphire Butterfly. The two organizations' efforts to free Chelaxian halflings from slavery is a constant thorn in Abrogail's side, reminding her of the limits of her power and of the dissidents who challenge her rule. The Bellflower Network is headquartered in Andoran, where it receives support from that country's abolitionist citizens; Andira Marusek, Andoran's current leader, has refused to extradite any Bellflower Network operatives or liberated slaves. In response, Queen Abrogail recently placed an army of devils on the eastern borders of Cheliax, responding to Andoran's outrage by claiming the army is meant to defend the people of Cheliax from the forces of the Whispering Tyrant. Andira's contempt for Abrogail's blatant intimidation tactic is obvious, and Abrogail returns Andira's hatred, leaving open war between the nations closer than ever.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Andira Marusek (page 12), Asmodeus (*Lost Omens Gods and Magic* 14), Hashim ibn Sayyid (page 50), Iomedae (*Lost Omens Gods and Magic* 28), Jakalyn (page 56), Kassi Aziril (page 70), Magdelena and Martum Fallows (page 84), Sapphire Butterfly (page 94), Tar-Baphon (page 104), Toulon Vidoc (page 112), Zon-Kuthon (*Lost Omens Gods and Magic* 50)

## INFERNAL CONTRACTS Abrogail Thrune II has established diabolically binding Thrune contracts (page 10) with several notable figures, including the following.

Golath Thamus (N male halfling sorcerer): A manager in the employ of one of the secret blood kings and queens of Vyre—the rulers of that vice-steeped city in Ravounel—Golath entered into his Thrune contract after a terrifying attempt on his life, but ceded much of his personal will to House

Thrune in exchange. **Hedvend VI (LE male human aristocrat):** The steward of the vassal state of Isger has a public *Thrune contract* permitting him full authority over the administration of Isger. Hedvend's *Thrune contract* has so many loopholes and contingencies that it provides him no real protection; he serves merely at Abrogail's whim.

Maestro Quendle Strikrunner (N female human diva): The owner, master composer, and prima donna of the Warius Opera House, one of Egorian's grandest entertainment venues. Her secret Thrune contract keeps Quendle supernaturally aware of changes in the ever-shifting Chelaxian art scene, in exchange for Quendle's inability to utter anti-Chelaxian lyrics.

DEVILS ON THE SHOULDER For her closest advisors, Queen Abrogail chose her former tutor Contessa Lrilatha and **Gorthoklek** (LE male pit fiend), the devil who had served her great-grandmother. These powerful fiends beside the throne do not control it, however: Abrogail herself is firmly in charge of Cheliax. She has worked tirelessly and ruthlessly to consolidate her power, and rumors fly that Gorthoklek must counsel Abrogail against her most vicious impulses.

# INFERNAL CONTRACTS Many devils enter into magical contracts with mortals to provide supernatural powers in exchange for their souls. Abrogail Thrune II is one of the few mortals empowered by Asmodeus himself to enter into such contracts with other mortals. Each of these _Thrune contracts_ provide specific benefits and drawbacks. Little negotiation goes into a _Thrune contract_; Abrogail insists that prospective bargainers take her terms or go elsewhere (often, to Egorian's excruciation fields). _Thrune contracts_ must be willingly signed by Abrogail and the other signatory. The process involves creation of two copies of the contract, one retained by Abrogail and one by the other signatory.

The effect of a Thrune contract is that of a magic item with the contract trait. The item has no physical substance and can't be dispelled, altered, or destroyed except by destroying both copies of the contract. A Thrune contract is automatically invested and counts toward a character's limit of 10 invested items—all Thrune contracts therefore have, as part of their cost, a fraction of the bargainer's ability to use other magic items. Abrogail, however, can enter into any number of Thrune contracts without restriction, and some believe she is even siphoning the other parties' investiture to increase her own. Once invested, Thrune contracts aren't visible—even though their effects can be—although anyone who has one is constantly aware of its presence. If a creature dies while it has a Thrune contract invested, its soul is consigned to Hell and it can't be restored to life unless its soul is freed.

FIENDISH TELEPORTATION ITEM 11 RARE CONJURATION CONTRACT INVESTED MAGICAL You tap into the fiendish ability to slip through space. When you Stride, you gain a +3 item bonus to Armor Class against reactions triggered by your movement. Once per day, from any distance, Abrogail Thrune II can call on a provision in your Thrune contract as a single action, causing you to become paralyzed for 1 hour or until Abrogail releases you, whichever comes first. Activate ◆◆ command; Frequency once per day; Effect You recite a subclause of your contract regarding change in venue. You cast dimension door. The space you leave and the one you appear in are filled with the scent of brimstone, dealing 2d6 evil damage to creatures adjacent to both spaces.

INFERNAL HEALTH ITEM 15 RARE CONTRACT HEALING INVESTED MAGICAL You regain triple the normal number of Hit Points when resting (meaning you regain triple your Constitution modifier multiplied by your level). The healing you gain from long-term rest is similarly tripled. Once per day, from any distance, Abrogail Thrune II can recite a voidability clause in your Thrune contract as a 1-minute activity to prevent you from regaining Hit Points from resting for 1 day. Activate command; Frequency once per day; Effect You recite a subclause regarding mandatory remediation from your Thrune contract. For 6 rounds, at the start of your turn each round, you recover 25 Hit Points unless you took good damage since the start of your previous turn.

UNENDING YOUTH ITEM 20 RARE CONJURATION CONTRACT INVESTED MAGICAL You cease aging, and if you were older than young adult in age, you become a young adult again. You gain a +4 status bonus to saves against death effects and resistance to negative damage equal to half your level. Once per day, from any distance, Abrogail Thrune II can recite a mandatory appearance clause in your Thrune contract as a 3-action activity to summon you to her side, where you are controlled by Abrogail for 1 minute before you return. Activate [two-action icon] command; Frequency once per day; Effect You recite a hold harmless provision from your Thrune contract. Reduce your doomed value to 0. Abrogail Thrune II is immediately made aware that you have used this ability.

- LEGENDS - INTRODUCTION - A–G - H–M - N–Z - ENTWINED DESTINIES - GLOSSARY AND INDEX