# ANDIRA MARUSEK

Subsection 14.50.010.004. No Limitations; Right of First Refusal. Nothing set forth in this Agreement (including, without limitation, the receipt of Infernal Services under this Agreement) shall: (a) limit the INFERNAL PARTY'S ability to make any similar arrangements as that set forth in this Agreement to any other mortal or immortal parties, including but not limited to any adversaries of the MORTAL PARTY, or (b) prevent the MORTAL PARTY from entering into any other agreement, whether similar to this Agreement or otherwise, with any other agent or representative of the Juridical Bureaucracy of the Boundless Pit (an "Other Infernal Agreement"), provided, however, that no such Other Infernal Agreement may involve the sale, lease, forfeiture, or other use of the MORTAL PARTY'S immortal soul without first providing the INFERNAL PARTY a right of first refusal to provide similar contractual services upon reasonable and equitable terms; or (c) create obligations binding in any way on the Juridical Bureaucracy of the Boundless Pit the ability to utilize any fiendish entity or fully corrupted mortal soul for any purpose for durations determined entirely by the Juridical Bureaucracy of the Boundless Pit in its sole discretion.

Section 14.50.010.006. Severability. If any provision, or portion thereof, of this Agreement is found to be invalid, unlawful, or unenforceable to any extent by an infernal court of jurisdiction deemed competent by the Juridical Bureaucracy of the Boundless Pit, such provision of this Agreement will be enforced to the maximum extent permissible by applicable infernal law so as to affect the intent of the parties, and the remainder of this Agreement will continue in full force and effect. The parties will negotiate an enforceable substitute provision for any invalid or unenforceable provision that most nearly achieves the intent and economic effect of such provision; provided, however, that if the parties are unable to agree upon such a provision, a substitute provision advanced by the INFERNAL PARTY shall not be binding on the parties hereunder.

Section 14.50.010.006. Waiver. Any waiver of the provisions of this Agreement or of a party's rights or remedies under this Agreement must be in writing to be effective, with such writings delivered pursuant to the Notices provision hereof set forth below. Failure, neglect, or delay by the INFERNAL PARTY to enforce the provisions of this Agreement or such party's rights or remedies at any time will not be construed as a waiver of the INFERNAL PARTY'S rights under this Agreement, and will not in any way affect the validity of the whole or any part of this Agreement or prejudice such party's right to take subsequent action.

Section 14.50.010.0097. Successors and Assigns. Neither this Agreement nor any rights under this Agreement may be assigned or otherwise transferred by either party, in whole or in part, whether voluntarily or by operation of law, including by way of sale of assets, merger, consolidation or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the other party; provided, however, the INFERNAL PARTY shall have the right to assign this Agreement without the prior written consent of the MORTAL PARTY in the event of a transfer of the INFERNAL PARTY'S authority or titles within the Juridical Bureaucracy of the Boundless Pit to any quality or degree. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement will be binding upon and will inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective successors and assigns. Any assignment in violation of this Section shall be null and void and, further, if made by the MORTAL PARTY, shall forfeit the immortal soul of the MORTAL PARTY to the Juridical Bureaucracy of the Boundless Pit.

Section 14.50.010.010. Notices. Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement or required by law must be in writing and must be delivered directly to, and received by, the INFERNAL PARTY (for notices provided by the MORTAL PARTY) or delivered to a location on Golarion determined by the INFERNAL PARTY in such party's sole discretion (for notices provided by the INFERNAL PARTY). Notices will be considered to have been given at the time of delivery pursuant to the provisions hereof.

Section 14.50.011.100. Construction; Interpretation. Notwithstanding any other provision hereunder, including but not limited to Section 2.050.100.000, this Agreement and any instrument referred to herein or executed and delivered in connection herewith, including but not limited to amendments, exhibits, allonges, or other addenda, will not be construed against the INFERNAL PARTY as the principal drafter hereof or thereof. The section and paragraph headings used in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and will not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement, except that any section numbering omitted herein (including but not limited to Section 8.01.001.003 and Section 14.50.010.008 hereof) shall be inserted as provided by the INFERNAL PARTY in such party's sole discretion and shall be agreed upon and binding upon, sight unseen, by the MORTAL PARTY. Unless otherwise expressly stated to the contrary herein, all remedies are cumulative, and the exercise of any express remedy by the INFERNAL PARTY herein does not by itself waive such party's right to exercise other rights and remedies available at law or in equity. Regarding interpretation of the provisions hereunder, the parties hereto acknowledge and agree that this Agreement shall be interpreted in such a manner as to remove the word "not" from the final sentence of Section 3.100.250.010 and from the final sentence of Section 14.50.010.008, and that such interpretations shall be binding upon the parties hereto.

- LEGENDS - INTRODUCTION - A–G - H–M - N–Z - ENTWINED DESTINIES - GLOSSARY AND INDEX

GET OUT AND VOTE! Although Andoran's citizens have more say in their fates than most, this presents Andira with a challenge that most of her fellow leaders don't have to face. Upcoming elections have forced her to juggle her current endeavors with a campaign for reelection, if she is to be able to accomplish her larger goals and make the most of her position.

ANDIRA MARUSEK

SUPREME ELECT OF ANDORAN LG FEMALE HUMAN EAGLE KNIGHT The Marusek family originally hailed from the port city of Augustana and had enough wealth to enjoy comfortable lives there. As a result, Andira grew up a happy child without wants or complaints. As a gift for her fifteenth birthday, Andira's parents paid for a voyage to Niswan in Jalmeray. A set of slaver galleys ambushed Andira's ship during her return journey, and she soon found herself the latest in a group of slaves serving as rowers. After several months Andira lost all hope of ever returning home, until a fleet of Gray Corsair ships found the trio of galleys and liberated Andira in the process. Among the Gray Corsairs was a woman named **Andira Galimnos** (LG female human Gray Corsair); the young Andira believed the fact that two shared a name to be more than mere coincidence. During the voyage home, Andira made it her goal to join the Eagle Knights to help others, much like Andira Galimnos had helped her.

# JOINING THE EAGLE KNIGHTS Upon her return to Augustana, Andira found herself immediately clashing with her parents. The Maruseks had their daughter once more, and the thought of Andira setting out to dangerous locations to fight slavers brought fear to their hearts. After months of pleading, Andira eventually received her parents' blessing and made her way to Almas to present herself at the Golden Aerie and join the Eagle Knights. The young Andira was a voracious learner, studying diplomacy, negotiation tactics, politics, and philosophy with the same zeal that she carried on the battlefield. Her expertise soon earned her a position among the Eagle Knight's Twilight Talons branch, marking her as one of the youngest Eagle Knights to do so.

Andira eventually tired of espionage and left her successful career as a spy in the Twilight Talons to better serve as a public figure to inspire others, much like Galimnos had inspired her long ago. Marusek joined the Steel Falcons, where her previous training served her well. As a result of her new position, Andira traveled farther than ever before, with easier access to ports replete with slavers. She publicly pushed for abolition when she could and boldly raided slaver galleons across the whole of the Inner Sea when policy was not enough. Her experience and success eventually earned her the title of General of the Steel Falcons. By 4716 AR, Andira had attracted the audience necessary to be voted into office as Andoran's new Supreme Elect, a position she took in 4717 AR on the eve of her 30th birthday.

# COMMANDER IN CHIEF As Supreme Elect, Andira Marusek has found herself adjusting to a life of politics, where righteousness and bold action are more often detriments than strengths. Andira believes that freeing slaves and destroying slavers shouldn't come second to the squabble of national dignitaries, but her duties have forced her to adopt a more tempered role on the world stage. Despite welcome overtures from the neighboring Grand Princess Eutropia, Andira finds that the relationship that the Andoran people have with Taldor is still strained, as Eutropia's father, Grand Prince Stavian III, still considered Andoran part of the Taldan Empire, despite being either unable or unwilling to enforce the claim.

Though on good terms with her neighbors in Kyonin, Andira is cautious to jump hastily into further relations with the elven queen, as she understands that many of Telandia's maneuvers are governed in the background by different advisors and nobles. Also, Andira strongly believes in democratic rule and is reluctant to ally too strongly with nations ruled by monarchies. Despite this, Andira works to encourage Queen Telandia's recent progressive policies, and the two have collaborated over the integration of elves and non-elves in the town of Greengold.

Andira also has an interesting relationship with Galt. Both nations were founded on the same principles, but Galt collapsed into an eternal and bloody revolution