# ANONG ARUNAK

that proved just as tyrannical as any dictator. While Andira shares her nation's caution around their former ally, she has slowly changed her position after Camilia Drannoch was named head of the Revolutionary Council. After Camilia shared her secret desire to destroy the _final blades_—the soul-trapping guillotines used to enforce the terror within Galt—Andira cemented a clandestine alliance, eventually extending the help of the Steel Falcons to aid Camilia's ultimate goal of purging Galt of its cruelties.

Relations with Andoran's western neighbor are sourer. Cheliax's extreme diabolism and the despotic rule of Queen Abrogail Thrune II repulse the Supreme Elect, as does its embrace of slavery. The people of Andoran largely echo this hostility, so when Andira took office as Supreme Elect, she inherited a country on the brink of war with Cheliax. Queen Abrogail returns the hatred with interest, and the two leaders' barely disguised contempt for one another has dragged political tensions to greater heights, culminating with Queen Abrogail placing an army of devils on the border between the two nations. With Andira unwilling to back down against this threat, the dual powers may soon erupt into violence.

WINDS OF LIBERATION Andira Marusek is among a short list of Supreme Elects, and her youth in comparison to her predecessor, **Codwin I of Augustana** (LG male human paladin of Iomedae), places an incredible pressure on her shoulders from both the people of her own nation and those neighboring. With her concrete and uncompromising opposition to slavery, Andira has found herself unofficially thrust into the role of leader of the abolitionist cause in the Inner Sea region. This has in turn garnered the attention, both positive and negative, of most neighboring nations and cities that don't enforce universal anti-slavery laws toward all ancestries.

Using her roles as a general and leader of the People's Council, Andira has the Gray Corsairs dock at foreign ports and fight slavery in locations where it is most prominent. The yellow-sailed slave ships of Katapesh are a particularly favored target; Pactbroker Hashim ibn Sayyid seems to have given up on even token admonishments of Andoran for their sacking of such vessels. Absalom has become a favored refuge of these returning Grey Corsairs, ever since Wynsal Starborn manumitted the city slaves and subsequently banned the practice of slavery. Andoran's leaders seem to have taken this move as an implicit sign of alliance between Absalom and Andoran, though no one has been so crass as to insinuate such out loud. Andira has opted for a gentler approach when it comes to Qadira, however, hoping that the new abolitionist shahiyan, Deena al-Parishat, can sway public opinion without the need for foreign force.

Responses to Andira's abolitionist crusade vary. In Katapesh, gnolls despise the Eagle Knights and fear that the Supreme Elect will further crack down on their trade. In Cheliax, Andira is jeered as weak, and even those that share her views are not optimistic about the Supreme Elect daring to wage war for the cause of abolitionism. The people of Andoran have a somewhat opposite sense of the situation, believing that if their Supreme Elect doesn't act, Cheliax will do so first as a preventative measure against abolitionism.

Andira still believes that the best strategy toward ending slavery altogether is through calm and organized dedication toward the common goal, though she wouldn't abstain from doing so under a more forceful flag. She views the lack of faith some have regarding her leadership as a tool, rather than an obstacle, and looks forward to wielding it for her own ends.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Abrogail Thrune II (page 8), Camilia Drannoch (page 38), Deena al-Parishat (page 120), Eutropia Stavian (page 42), Hashim ibn Sayyid (page 50), Iomedae (Lost Omens Gods and Magic 28), Magdalena and Martum Fallows (page 84), Telandia Edasseril (page 106), Wynsal Starborn (page 118)

BITTER EXPERIENCE Andira's time with the Twilight Talons saw her on countless missions beyond Andoran's borders. As part of her work, she met with Magdalena and Martum Fallows of the Bellflower Network and helped conduct several operations while in disguise. Andira's efforts continued for nearly a decade as she slowly armed herself with new, aggressive fighting techniques as well as an extensive knowledge of Bellflower poisons and medicines that derived from plants and animals. Her experience steered her in the direction of some of the harshest slave ports, where she witnessed many horrific trafficking abuses. Andira's early work with the Bellflower Network exposed her to the worst that Cheliax had to offer, especially to enslaved halflings and other non-human peoples, which only further instilled disgust for the nation and its thrice-damned leader.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

Though our acquaintance with the high king of Dongun is confined to letters, it remains exceptionally memorable. The king holds great wisdom beyond her centuries, and she always finds an answer for what troubles her people. It seems that anyone speaking with her will find exactly what they needed in her eyes: compassion, friendship, guidance, ruthlessness. —High King Borogrim the Hale

# ANONG ARUNAK

# HIGH KING OF DONGUN HOLD LG FEMALE DWARF ARISTOCRAT The dwarven fortress city of Dongun Hold, a rare and fiercely guarded outpost of civilization and safety in the magic-dead Mana Wastes, has been ruled for centuries by the dwarven High King Anong Arunak. It was High King Arunak who met personally with the eccentric exile **Ancil Alkenstar** (LN male human engineer), who went on to found the nation that shares his name, and it was Arunak who both directed the development of firearms in Dongun Hold and negotiated the lucrative trade agreements that permit Alkenstar's Gunworks to manufacture and sell the dwarven inventions. Few people have been more instrumental in shaping the recent history and current position of the Mana Wastes than the High King of Dongun Hold, and yet very little is known about her.

Anong Arunak began her life far underground in a cavern in the Darklands, where the dwarves of Dongun Hold had retreated to escape the unending war between the wizards Nex and Geb. Born to the royal house and trained since birth to rule her people, she complemented that education with her own studies to become one of the most far-sighted leaders of her generation. When Ancil Alkenstar discovered the dwarves and the gunpowder weapons that they had perfected, Anong accepted an audience with the refugee, listening to his news of an end to the war between the wizards and a refuge for exiles located in the Mana Wastes.

Among Arunak began her life far underground in a cavern in the Darklands, where the dwarves of Dongun Hold had retreated to escape the unending war between the wizards Nex and Geb. Born to the royal house and trained since birth to rule her people, she complemented that education with her own studies to become one of the most far-sighted leaders of her generation. When Ancil Alkenstar discovered the dwarves and the gunpower weapons that they had perfected, Anong accepted an audience with the refugee, listening to his news of an end to the war between the wizards and a refuge for exiles located in the Mana Wastes. Recognizing the unique opportunity presented by Alkenstar and his encampment, High King Arunak led her people back to the surface to retake their ancestral Sky Citadel, invested heavily in the nascent technology of firearms to protect her people from the lethal beasts of the Mana Wastes, and then further capitalized on that investment by licensing the technology to Alkenstar's Gunworks. However, she also understood the threat that such weapons could pose in unworthy hands and has firmly restricted the number that become available for outside trade, though production limits have been increased in recent years. Similarly, High King Arunak pushed aside the hold's entrenched xenophobia to aid and protect Alkenstar's early settlers, ensuring that the nation would become a strong ally for Dongun Hold. High King Arunak was even willing to open negotiations with the magic-infused nation of Nex, whose arcane wars with Geb devastated Dongun Hold in an earlier age. Although the Nex-Geb war caused immense suffering in Dongun

- ![inline micro-figure: the left edge of a cannon or artillery piece, barrel pointing right] d Dongun Hold in an earlier age. Although the Nex-Geb war caused immense suffering in Dongun Hold as the fortress city was conquered and re-conquered by each side, High King Arunak overruled her isolationist advisors and chose to open trade lines with a nation that her people had mistrusted for centuries.

# TROUBLE IN PARADISE The high king's decisions have led Dongun Hold to unprecedented prosperity, but her rulings haven't gone unchallenged. Centuries of seclusion have left many Dongun dwarves with a profound mistrust of others, and though more than a century of alliance with Alkenstar has softened this view, extremists remain common. Each of Anong Arunak's policies has invited its own set of enemies. The Keepers of the Skyflame, a cohort of traditionalist dwarves originally founded to maintain Dongun Hold's cultural links to its fellow Sky Citadels, opposed the development of firearms as an unnecessary and dangerous innovation. The Skyflame also opposed letting any of that technology slip into human