# ARDAX THE WHITE-HAIR

hands and they were infuriated by the idea of opening trade links with Nex and Alkenstar. The Goldhand Lodge, another frequent opponent of the king's, is a mercantile association that wants to raise the Gunworks' production quota so that they can increase their profits. Goldhand agents regularly try to evade the king's restrictions; several of them have been arrested for smuggling firearms and other contraband out of Dongun Hold. High King Arunak has recently received envoys from Hashim ibn Sayyid, the enigmatic Pactbroker of Katapesh, who wishes to open trade negotiations—the Goldhand Lodge is now pressuring the king to embrace the Pactbroker's offer immediately, and the suggestion has predictably infuriated the Keepers of the Skyflame. For now, the king is trying to chart a middle course.

Another budding problem is the upwelling of popular anxiety about the rumored return of the archwizard Nex. The mighty fleshforges of Ecanus have suddenly begun to churn uncontrolled horrors into the Mana Wastes, putting both Alkenstar and Dongun Hold in peril. The possibility of Nex's return, and the reignition of his country's long war with Geb, has inflamed deep-rooted fears in Dongun Hold. Pressure has fallen on High King Arunak to re-open the old underground quarters, reinforce the old protections, and ensure that they are ready to receive the city's population if the worst should come. After centuries of disuse, some of these tunnels have fallen into dangerous disrepair, and others have become infested with monsters. Clearing and restoring them is an expensive, hazardous endeavor.

Despite these challenges, High King Arunak remains broadly popular with her people, for she has greatly elevated Dongun Hold's power and prosperity. In Alkenstar, which would not exist as a nation without her help, the king is considered nearly a saint, and the companies of dwarven sharpshooters that Dongun Hold sends to help defend Alkenstar from marauding monsters are widely celebrated as heroes. Of course, the king's support is not entirely altruistic: these sharpshooters also protect Dongun Hold by ensuring that Alkenstar is the first line of defense and bears the cost of maintaining the most sorely tested fortifications. Nevertheless, the dwarven companies are an integral part of the alliance's shared defenses, and wanderers from the Mana Wastes who wish to earn citizenship in Dongun Hold often volunteer to serve with one of the companies as a starting point.

High King Arunak also maintains cordial relations with the dwarves of the Five Kings Mountains, and she carries on a personal correspondence with the noted physician Kassi Aziril, whose achievements in non-magical healing are of considerable interest to the peoples of the Mana Wastes. Unknown to any of the other dwarves in Dongun Hold, the high king has also sent her most skilled and trusted envoy to seek a safe means to contact Overlord Ardax the White-Hair of Urgi—as Anong Arunak holds a letter with an apology so heretical to the dwarves that its delivery could dethrone her.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Ardax the White-Hair (page 16), High King Borogrim the Hale (LN male dwarf high king of Highhelm), Geb (page 44), Hashim ibn Sayyid (page 50), Kassi Aziril (page 70), Nex (page 90), Taargick (page 102)

# POLITICAL LIABILITIES With each year, as the Skyflame dwarves lose more ground in the ideological war, their tactics become more extreme. Rumors link the Skyflame to several acts of sabotage, both of the firearms themselves and of trade negotiations, and whispers persist that they have even more violent actions planned: assassinations of diplomats, staged attacks they can blame on outsiders, and worse. The high king's agents are looking for proof that might link the Keepers of the Skyflame to these acts and thus potentially bring down the venerable organization, though they fear the uproar that might follow if they find it.

Mission failed. Agent N_____ barely finished their proposal before the orc lord reached out and snapped their neck. Orc lord then looked at me, told me curtly to leave. Considered it prudent to oblige. –Intercepted missive from a Varisian spy

# Ardax the White-Hair

OVERLORD OF THE HOLD OF BELKZEN NE MALE ORC BARBARIAN ROGUE The land of Belkzen is harsh, and the orcs that call it home know this better than any. The various orc holds have, for most of Golarion's history, fought fiercely with one another, trading leadership at the edge of a blade and holding it through fear until death comes at the hands of another. Yet even death has not moved the orc warlord Grask Uldeth from the throne of Urgir. He sits there now, his desiccated eyes still seeming to stare at the blade in his chest, its slowly corroding point pinning him to the throne he guarded so cautiously.

None are sure how the assassin slipped past the Closed Fist patrols and through the ranks of Empty Hand warriors to plunge the sword into Uldeth, but none doubt the devotion Uldeth's advisor and majordomo, Ardax the White-Hair, still holds for his overlord. Within hours of Uldeth's assassination, the fearsome Ardax cornered the killer in a subterranean section of Urgir and slew them with little ceremony.

Though Ardax didn't claim the throne from the former warlord, he was quick to consolidate power. He assumed the role of acting overlord, though he still refers to himself as the steward of Urgir—Ardax is quite capable of ruling from his own Halls of the Closed Fist and shuns the trappings of lofty titles. His pragmatism and disdain for typical displays of strength and power have led to rumors that the Throne of Urgir is cursed. Why else would Ardax refuse to take it?

# TERRIFYING WISDOM Ardax is highly unusual among the orcs of Belkzen for having lived to middle-age, avoiding an untimely death in the many battles and power struggles that plague that land. His age aside, Ardax is a perplexing sight among his kin: where most orcs have dark hair (or bald heads) and fearsome spiked armor, Ardax keeps his white hair held in a tight topknot and wears simple, close-fitting hide armor. He uses the confusion caused by this image as a tool of intimidation, appearing unarmed before other warlords, figure: The left edge of the image contains a partial illustration of a curved, dark horn or tusk, possibly part of a stylized orc or creature. The figure is cropped and does not show a complete subject.

flanked only by a rust monster for protection. **K'zaard the Drover** (NE male orc barbarian), leader of the Cleft Head orcs, once spent so much of his meeting with Ardax looking for a weapon on him that K'zaard could remember little else of the meeting, let alone what he had agreed to. Ardax has an uncanny knack for divining useful information. Against the advice of the Twisted Nail hold, Ardax sent a small raiding party with the goblin **Igaz** (CE male goblin rogue) to find a supposedly hidden dwarven fort. To the surprise of all but Ardax, the party returned two weeks later hauling cartloads of dwarven armor, weapons, and artifacts. Likewise, Ardax's efforts have deeply frustrated spymasters across the Inner Sea region; their agents have spent months attempting to infiltrate Urgir and learn more about its calculating new overlord, but no matter their approach, no agent has succeed in passing through the gates of Urgir undiscovered. This constant thwarting of espionage has drawn a significant amount of interest from many who would otherwise ignore the political machinations of orcs.

Rumors of Ardax's mysterious powers of insight abound, increasingly so since the stoic orc has been seen walking the ramparts of Urgir with the former Runelord Sorshen. Her ambassadors arrived in Urgir when orcs began fleeing into her territory after Tar-Baphon escaped Gallowspire. Ardax considered pursuing the cowards to be wasted effort and allowed the fleeing orcs to stay in New Thassilon, asking only for their names. This response seems to have gained a