# AVARNEUS

Chancellor Irahai, You asked how I stumbled upon sun orchids. Very well. In fact, I was chasing a bee. The Thuvian oasis bee makes honey that luminesces, provides an excellent base for suspensions, and enhances every potion that utilizes it. I sought after their hives, and soon discovered these iridescent insects were the key pollinators of wild sun orchids, having an almost exclusive relationship with those flowers. figure: Illustration of a pink sun orchid flower with five petals, a yellow and brown center, and a green bee perched on one of the petals. The flower is shown on a long, curved stem. The image is used to visually represent the sun orchid described in the text.

This led to Tukalo and I living in a tent in an oasis, studying the flowers day and night. A tea made from the dried labellum and sepals tastes of vanilla and clears the mind. The thick, waxy leaves slow bleeding and have antiseptic qualities. The light white fungus that nourishes their root system makes an excellent alchemical catalyst. We discovered a secondary pollinator, the crimson pharaoh beetle—Tukalo claimed that these beetles were the tastiest. I was not as excited about them on my plate as he was, but they kept us both fed in lean times. Without them, my discovery would never have happened. orchids typically have an exclusive relationship with their pollinators, but the shape of the sun orchid's pollinia allows it to be spread by multiple carriers

Now, ask me why I would abandon my alchemical shop and comfortable life in Merab to live as a desert hermit. The truth is I was dying. My aged body was plagued by persistent illnesses that resisted magical cures, and the prognosis left me with only a few months. I thought that this study would be our final research, and I thought that by doing this we would not just advance science, but also die in a lovely place. Then the few months stretched into three years, and Tukalo and I realized my illness was gone. That is when our research truly began. But enough about deserts. Tell me more of Mendev. What sorts of plants grow there in that cool climate?

-Artokus

to survive in desert conditions, the sun orchid stores water in its thick leaves and fleshy roots; it is exceptionally sensitive to changes in environment, and refuses to thrive in captivity

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

CHANGED CIRCUMSTANCES Avarneus had far less interest in altruism in the past, but they were forced to commit more and more of themself in order to win the fight for their country's freedom. Their many quiet battles forged them into a hero, though it's the current peace in Vidrian that allows them the leisure of virtue.

# AVARNEUS ## HEROIC SPY OF VIDRIAN CG NONBINARY HUMAN INVENTOR Avarneus has never been forthcoming with details of their past, though enough of it was dragged into the open during their public trials as a collaborator for the colonialist government after the revolution in Sargava gave birth to the nation of Vidrian. They grew up in Kalabuto, though the exact details of their youth are unclear. Some claim to have seen them begging in the streets, left alone in the world. Others will swear they were the child of one of the secretaries to a councilor in Eleder, seeing firsthand what Chelaxian rule did to people who once spoke of the importance of their culture and history—how they threw it away so simply, and how corruption festered. Still others say they lived a relatively easy life in Freehold and only began to question their status and situation as Salgarth began to plot the "restructuring" of their home. Some whisper Avarneus has the standoffish, overly quiet inconspicuousness of someone from the hive of criminals and ne'er-do-wells of Crown's End.

The most agreed-upon point is that Avarneus saw the suffering and hardships of their people, saw what could and needed to be done, and saw the holes in the armor of Sargava's Chelaxian governmental administrators and the locals enlisted to preserve colonial rule. Avarneus themself refuses to confirm any story, always firmly stating that it is a thing of the past that has little bearing on what needs to be done now.

The first place Avarneus begins to surface in the annals of history is working with the thieves' guild in Eleder. Lonely individuals trapped in colonial life by their spouses' work recall a young friend's open ear and kind but tired eyes, though they could never remember the person's name or when they discovered their purses were much lighter. Eager would-be politicians were always happy to have an attentive and obsequious native assistant but never managed to blame the right person when objects went missing or documents disappeared, only to mysteriously reappear after hours or days. Though Avarneus often lacked in easygoing charm when caught unprepared, they made up for it in their unparalleled ability to read people and situations and maneuver them into the positions needed. Avarneus is intelligent and efficient but, much more importantly, they are invisible to most. That social invisibility allows access to places, people, and things when others struggle to gain even a passing glance.

For a time, Avarneus kept their distance from the brewing revolution and only financed those insurgents they knew could be trusted with earnings from fenced goods. However, it quickly became apparent that many things they seemed to have such easy access to were almost entirely closed off from those who shared their idealistic vision, as information and the trust needed to gain it were in short supply for natives of what would soon be Vidrian. So Avarneus took up the role that was needed without anyone asking. They used their privileges, access, and guile to embed themself and other skilled spies in Sargava's colonial government. Key shipping routes and schedules, no matter how altered or convoluted, were disrupted and taken by pirates. The worst atrocities of cruel colonial rulers always seemed to end up presented to sympathetic eyes and hearts, who would then sever ties. Senior officials jumped at the offers of a Mwangi agent willing to sell out burgeoning rebellions, never assuming they might be sold out in turn. Slowly but surely, Sargava's elite reconsidered how tenuous their hold truly was due to the tireless and thankless work of Avarneus and others. When victory finally came, Avarneus was arrested as a perceived collaborator, but they took solace in the fact that their home would be in good hands. They were quietly surprised to see how many vouched for them in the fledgling Vidrian council's trials.

Avarneus is measured, soft-spoken, and attentive as they aim to take in every detail and weigh every possibility and outcome. They only speak when they must and only as much as is needed. Otherwise, they simply listen, watch, and wait; every moment

figure: Decorative gold and brown ornate border with blue and gold ribbon or feather elements hanging down. No text or data present; purely ornamental.

spent in the company of others is a chance to learn something new about those people, and an unguarded moment is all one needs to turn the tides in one's favor.

As a lingering effect of their work as a spy, Avarneus tends to dress inconspicuously, wears little that identifies them, and rarely uses gendered language about themself. Those that are close to Avarneus—as close as one can be to such an enigma—tend to use only their name. Historical records refer to Avarneus as a man, something the former spy has never taken the time to correct, as there are always more important matters at hand. When Vidrian is finally self-sufficient,

important matters at hand. When Vidrian is finally self-sufficient, perhaps then they will take on the task of making sure those who deserve to be honored and remembered are given their correct due as they should be addressed, themself included.

# DOSSIERS Avarneus tries to avoid attention and wishes for a quiet life in the freedom they fought for, yet they don't seem to know how to rest. Despite now being a part of the governing council of Vidrian—or more likely, because of it—Avarneus has never stopped gathering intelligence, though they do recruit others for their missions when they absolutely must. They have thankfully also stopped reflexively spinning lies if allies catch them in one of their manipulations.

Avarneus measures the value of relationships by their political potential. They recognize this is personally and professionally destructive in the long run, especially should someone take their indifferent nature personally and make their displeasure a problem for Vidrian. Even so, this is how they have learned to operate. They haven't needed to change yet.

## Abrogail Thrune II Having seen what Cheliax is capable of, Avarneus knows an ever-watchful eye must be kept over Abrogail Thrune II and all her actions. Abrogail will undoubtedly attempt to consolidate her power and expand again soon, taking back anything she sees as hers by right. Vidrian will need to be prepared for the day she tries.

A particularly ostentatious piece of art, a gift from some simpering foreign dignitary, is currently heading to Queen Abrogail Thrune II. Avarneus has tasked agents to intercept the shipment and conceal within it a clockwork recorder to record a single conversation. Avarneus knows this is a particularly risky operation, and the agents are under orders to destroy the recorder at any sign of it being discovered.

**Shimali Manux** Despite their aloofness toward most people, including Shimali, Avarneus sees the Vidric admiral's idealism as something that should be nurtured and cherished. Though they rarely mention it, they try to keep an eye on the Firebrands and those they associate with for potential dissension on Shimali's behalf.

**Sihar** It's unclear if Avarneus sees themself or someone they knew in the rebel leader Sihar, but they do ask for regular reports on the state of Mzali to keep an active eye on the city-state. They have made sure that, when and if Mzali asks for aid, they are able to provide at least some.

**Tessa Fairwind** The Hurricane Queen swears she will never forgive Avarneus for betraying her. To hear her tell it, they courted her and the two had a whirlwind romance before

PEOPLE OF NOTE Abrogail Thrune II (page 8), Shimali Manux (page 96), Sihar (page 98), Tessa Fairwind (page 108), Toulon Vidoc (page 112), Wynsal Starborn (page 118)

PRIVATE OPINION Abrogail Thrune II: "Wants to reassert her rule and to do it soon. Retaking Vidrian would put wealth and therefore power into her treasury. I will not allow it. Cruel and conniving. Monitor closely and discreetly."

Shimali Manux: "Kind to a fault in some exploitable respects. I once exploited similar weak points in others and would prefer not to see her betrayed this way. In an ideal world, her optimism is what we need to guide Vidrian to its brightest future." Sihar: "Vidrian will always need allies, especially ones that can be quickly reached. She has her own revolution to see fulfilled first."

**Tessa Fairwind:** "Passed intel on fleet to Shimali; cold since. Passionate to a fault and will turn fury on any who cross her. Upsets if romance is involved. Use caution in the future."

**Toulon Vidoc:** "Attempting to investigate a disappearance; need more information. Cannot understand that law is never applied equitably. Avoid; he would destroy Vidrian given the chance."

Wynsal Starborn: "New regimes always mean a reassessment of standing; Starborn is no different. Vidrian needs dependable allies, he needs to prove himself one."

# THE LOST, REMEMBERED One of Avarneus' first motions as a part of Vidrian's council was to have a memorial erected in honor of heroes of the revolution, yet the prominent names below were purposefully excluded. Some scratch their heads at this decision, but Avarneus's only answer is that those who are absent know why.

Masoud: "Alive, Vidrian, traveling. Spy turned merchant, wants quiet life." Amadi: "Deceased, Mzali, cremated. Spy, killed by Walkena while on assignment." Nour: "Alive, Cheliax, unknown. Traitor, no information disclosed and acted on; monitoring." Raya: "Alive, Senghor, traveling. Ambassador, attempting to correct relations." Efie: "Deceased or missing, High Seas. Joined Firebrands, missing in action." Zola: "Alive, Alkenstar, Gunworks. Studying tinkering; contact soon." Fahim: "Alive, Absalom, Pathfinder Society. Launderer, now working as accountant; nothing notable." Fareeha: "Alive, Absalom, traveling. Spy, gathering information throughout the country. Missed scheduled check in, may be missing." Kariuki: "Deceased, Mana Wastes. Wizard, became adventurer, killed by phantom army; good riddance."

the revolutionary threw the Free Captains to the wolves. Avarneus denies the relationship outright but never denies that they manipulated Tessa to further the revolution. If they hold any remorse, no one would know.

## Wynsal Starborn When it comes to Absalom's acting primarch, Avarneus simply doesn't have enough information to judge Starborn for themself, a position they loathe to be in. Tales of the man have made it all the way to Vidrian, but the fact that Wynsal shuns his power concerns Avarneus. They aim to gather intelligence on Starborn as both a leader and a person to decide if a connection is worth pursuing. While other councilors of Vidrian welcome the recognition of such a well-regarded and influential ruler, Avarneus keeps their thoughts on the future. Knowing that Wynsal undoubtedly has foes and wishes to quickly abdicate his position means the acting primarch's enemies might prove more valuable allies than his friends.

News has reached Avarneus that the council of Absalom is planning some sort of gala or festival, which provides a perfect opportunity to investigate.

# AVARNEUS'S TOOLS As a spy, Avarneus preferred not to rely on magic, as it could be thwarted easily enough with just a few words and waves of a hand. On long-term missions of subterfuge, they would need something undetectable, and a practical sort of "magic" can be just as effective as any other. Avarneus shares the schematics with only their closest allies—once Avarneus trusts them completely, of course. These schematics serve as formulas, allowing anyone with the formula to Craft one of Avarneus's many unique tools.

CLOCKWORK RECORDER ITEM 6 RARE Price 250 gp Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L This small recording device can be as tiny as a music box or around the size of large book and is typically concealed in hollowed-out books and jewelry. A clockwork recorder can record up to 1 hour of sound before its wax cylinders must be retrieved and replaced. Any given clockwork recorder can play back the recordings of a cylinder, regardless of whether it was the recorder used for the original recording.

**Activate** ![inline micro-figure: three right-pointing chevrons] Interact; **Effect** You wind the recorder to start recording sound or to play back a recording. You can have the recording or playback start immediately or be timed to start at any point up to one month later.

*"Walls might have ears, and statues can be fonts of information."* —a

LOVERS' INK ITEM 2 RARE ALCHEMICAL CONSUMABLE Price 5 gp Usage with writing set; Bulk L This ink, derived from inks used by lovers to deliver secret messages, dries to a color similar to most parchments. Avarneus's version requires another dose of lover's ink and a specific agitation to reveal the hidden message, preventing casual interception. Any message written with lovers' ink is revealed by applying a page worth of lover's ink and vigorously shaking, requiring 3 Interact actions. A typical vial provides enough ink to fill 1 page worth of text. While the text is hidden, a creature closely examining a surface marked with lover's ink can detect the presence of the ink with a successful DC 25 Perception check. On a critical success, they can make out the ink well enough to use Society to Decipher Writing.

*"I assumed I would have no use for this sort of thing. I found one I can tolerate."* –a