# BABA YAGA

# FAMILIAR FACES Baba Yaga vanished at the start of the Reign of Winter Adventure Path, sealed by the combined efforts of Queen Elvanna of Irrisen and Baba Yaga's abandoned son, the Russian mystic Grigori Rasputin. *Legends* assumes that Baba Yaga was freed by a group of heroes, as played by the PCs, who went on to defeat Queen Elvanna. Instead of crowning another one of her daughters, Baba Yaga was convinced to make the resurrected Earth princess Anastasia Romanov the new queen of Irrisen.

# BABA YAGA ## LEGENDARY WITCH QUEEN NE FEMALE HUMAN WITCH "Babushka, tell me a story." "Anything for you, sunshine. Long ago and far away, there lived a little girl. One day, the girl hid from a blizzard in a valley, where she found a rowan tree next to a spring. The little girl was cold and tired, and she bathed in the spring... and the tree spoke to her. The rowan taught her secrets of birch and oak and ash, songs of wolves and stories of birds, and the wise tree taught her deep and ancient magic. When the little girl left the tree, she was no little girl, but a woman and a witch. "The witch lived with many peoples, learning more of power and magic. But as her fame spread, more and more people came to ask her for help. Some tried to force her, but forcing a witch never works the way people think it does. Others begged her, and the witch hated the begging. Why, the witch thought, did all these people come to her with problems instead of solving them for themselves? "So the witch started asking higher and higher prices from those who came to her. She asked for buckets of gold and threw them down the well. She asked for tracts of land and never visited them. She asked a man to cut off his ears to heal his blindness. She asked a farmer to burn his fields to save his cows. She asked for a child to cook her pet dog to give her parents wealth and glory. And people did all these things. The witch grew angrier and angrier with everyone's begging, until she grew a wrinkle for every question asked and a wart for every favor given.

"Old and bitter, the witch traveled far and wide, to the lands behind the moon and beyond the sun, and she found that everywhere she went, the people were foolish and the problems were the same. She found fault with everyone, from the angels in Heaven to the devils in Hell, and shook her fist at demigods and swore at queens.

"Oh, child, I could tell you so many stories. I could tell you how she lived in a dancing hut on chicken legs; how she flew about in a mortar and pestle, sweeping her tracks away behind her; how she has three horsemen who she calls her Bright Dawn, her Red Sun, and her Dark Midnight. I could tell you about the Thrice-Tenth Kingdom and the firebird, the Island of Buyan, and Vasilisa the Beautiful, who escaped her. I could tell you about the warlord Kostchtchie of Iobaria, who came to her and demanded she make him live forever. She tore out half his soul and put it in his torc, that he might never die, but made him ugly in exchange. So hideous Kostchtchie was, he fled to the very Abyss, and rules there still, nursing an eternal grudge.

"But let me tell you a different story. Long ago, when there was still summer, this land was ruled by the linnorm kings. But the old witch wanted the land, and she gathered a mighty host, of trolls and wolves and dark things that flitted in the night. Before the moon had turned round once, she broke Wise King Jarguut, and the great thanes of Djurstor. Then she wreathed the land in unending winter, and set her daughter Jadwiga as queen of Irrisen, with a crown of ice upon her brow.

"A hundred years passed, and the old witch took Jadwiga away, and made Jadwiga's sister Morgannan queen. And so it's been ever since. Every century, the old witch came and took the queens away, and set a new daughter on the throne. Two of them fought back, cunning Tashanna and cold Elvanna. Now, one of the old witch's granddaughters rules our land, fair and sweet-tempered Anastasia."

"Babushka, the old witch... she is Baba Yaga Bony-Legs?" "She is. And she is my great-grandmother, and yours as well, child." —*The Tale of Baba Yaga*, as told by Zhoseniya Jadwiga Velikas

# BABA YAGA IN GOLARION The ancient Sarmatian witch Baba Yaga is perhaps the greatest witch in existence. She is more powerful than most dukes of Hell, considers runelords to be bickering children, and isn't a goddess only because the idea of answering prayers appalls her. She has a hundred schemes on a hundred worlds: on Earth (the land of her birth), on wintry Triaxus, across the Great Beyond, and on Golarion. Though few know the truth, recently her daughter, Queen Elvanna, trapped Baba Yaga in a set of matryoshka dolls. After being released by local heroes, Baba Yaga is willing to consider that perhaps she'd been too dismissive of this world.

Ever since, Baba Yaga has taken to sticking her warty nose into every corner of Golarion. She isn't looking for more power, though she won't pass up a chance to learn a secret or steal a treasure. She isn't looking for luxury, though she enjoys her comforts. Nor does she have any desire to rule, though she demands respect. No, Baba Yaga seeks out glorious heroes and infamous villains because they entertain her.

Above all else, Baba Yaga appreciates wit, determination, and a certain brazenness, regardless of how it's used (nothing made Baba Yaga prouder of her daughter than Elvanna's attempted coup). She is interested in people who bend the world around themselves, the ones who start as paupers and end as princes. Baba Yaga sometimes appears to such people to give advice, grant a boon, or set a test. She never solves someone's problem for them without giving them a bigger one in return, and she enjoys giving supplicants just enough rope with which to hang themselves.

Some desperate individuals seek out Baba Yaga themselves. But Baba Yaga loathes being asked for help, and she sets unreasonable prices for her aid to discourage dilettantes. Still, if one can meet her price or pass her test, the Baba Yaga is honorable enough to fulfill her end of the bargain, albeit with some grumbling. Others know enough of Baba Yaga to fear or hate her. In Irrisen, she is the Queen of Witches and the ultimate arbiter of the nation's destiny. For now, Queen **Anastasia of Irrisen** (LN female human winter queen) has a measure of the crone's favor, though that might come at the cost of sharing her predecessors' fate. The orcs of Belkzen tell dark tales of her, and the linnorm kings have never forgotten how easily Baba Yaga routed them. King Thira Ash-Eyes's father, King **Sveinn Blood-Eagle** (CN male human barbarian), sought for years to overthrow the witch, to no avail.

Baba Yaga and the other archmages of Golarion are distant colleagues at best. The witch claims to see no difference at all between the last two runelords, Belimarius and Sorshen, and enjoys tweaking their tails by sending curious curses or barbed gifts. She describes Tar-Baphon as a fool seeking a poisoned chalice, but of Old-Mage Jatembe, Baba Yaga says nothing at all.

# BABA YAGA AS A WITCH'S PATRON While witches' patrons are typically mysterious, and many of the witch patrons presented in the _Advanced Player's Guide_ are great fits for Baba Yaga as a patron, some witches have a more direct connection to the ancient witch herself. For instance, Baba Yaga might appear before someone and demand they sweep the floor of her workshop with a tiny brush. If they don't comply, Baba Yaga might eat them; if they do, they might discover that they've become a witch, with Baba Yaga as their patron.

Baba Yaga acts via strange items as often as living creatures. A witch with Baba Yaga as their patron can choose an inanimate object as a familiar. If they do, they still can gain master abilities and some familiar abilities that don't require movement. The object familiar has no Speeds and must select a Speed familiar ability before it can move, coming to life in a way appropriate to the chosen Speed and using the statistics of a normal familiar for that day.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Belimarius and Sorshen (page 34), Old-Mage Jatembe (page 62), Tar-Baphon (page 104), Thira Ash-Eyes (page 110)

SIGHTINGS Though rumors persist that Baba Yaga has been banished from Golarion, secondhand reports of sightings of the witch likewise continue to surface.

**Old Acquaintances:** The Dancing Dolphin tavern has stood in Oppara's raucous Westport district for over a millennium, weathering war, fire, and storm. Every hundred years or so, a shabby old northern woman with a pet chicken meets an elderly Zenj gentleman leaning on a leopard-headed

staff. They sit by the window and watch the ships go by, and they talk. Sometimes the chicken lays a painted wooden egg, sometimes the staff leans in to listen.

**Witch-Weather:** Across the Saga Lands, unseasonably early frosts or unexpected hailstorms are called "witch-weather." Some claim to have seen Baba Yaga riding before the storm front in her mortar and pestle.

The Fence: Two brothers were traveling the forests of Ustalav when they came upon a fence set with human skulls, eyes all aglow. Two posts were empty, and behind the fence they could see a tall hut on two pillars. More wise than

brave, the brothers fled.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z

ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

*The coronation was a somber affair, with the new winter queen barely responding to the events around her. For just a moment when Baba Yaga's back was turned, though, Anastasia stuck her tongue out at the old witch.* —Anonymous palace servant

Baba Yaga (Rare Witch Patron) Baba Yaga teaches you how to transfer spirits into objects and freeze your foes. Spell List occult Patron Skill Occultism Hex Cantrip spirit object Granted Spell chilling spray (Advanced Player's Guide 217)

Major Lesson A witch with Baba Yaga as a patron can select the lesson of the frozen queen when a feat or other effect grants a major lesson. Other witches who find secret knowledge or magic from Baba Yaga hidden in Irrisen or elsewhere might be able to uncover this rare lesson as well.

**Lesson of the Frozen Queen (Rare):** You gain the _glacial heart_ hex, and your familiar learns _wall of ice_.

SPIRIT OBJECT CANTRIP 1 RARE HEX NECROMANCY WITCH Cast or (somatic, verbal) Range 30 feet; Targets 1 unattended object up to 1 Bulk Using a sliver of Baba Yaga's power, you briefly bring an object to life. The object gains a means of locomotion, such as sprouting chicken legs, and Strides up to 25 feet to a space you decide within range. If you spent 2 actions Casting the Spell, the object then attacks one creature of your choice adjacent to its new space. Make a melee spell attack roll against the creature. On a success, the creature takes bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage (as appropriate for the object) equal to 1d4 plus your spellcasting ability modifier, and on a critical success, it takes double damage. Heightened (+1) Increase the maximum Bulk of the target by 1 and the damage by 1d4.

GLACIAL HEART FOCUS 5 RARE EVOCATION HEX WITCH Cast somatic, verbal Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration 1 minute Ice and bone-deep cold assail the target, freezing it from the inside out. The frosty assault deals 10d6 cold damage, subject to the target's Fortitude save. After the effects are resolved, the target is temporarily immune for 1 day.

Critical Success The target is unaffected. Success The target takes half damage and is slowed 1 for 1 round. The spell ends. Failure The target takes full damage, is slowed 1, and must attempt a Fortitude save at the end of each of its turns; this ongoing save has the incapacitation trait. On a failed save, the slowed condition increases by 1 (or 2 on a critical failure), to a maximum of slowed 4. On a success, the slowed condition decreases by 1. If at any point the slowed condition is reduced to 0, the spell ends. Once a creature's actions are reduced to 0 by this slowed condition, the creature is completely encased in ice. It continues making saves against glacial heart, possibly allowing it to reduce its slowed condition enough that it can act. This ice has Hardness 4 and 8 Hit Points, and its DC to Force Open is your spell DC. Breaking the ice frees the creature and ends the spell. If someone other than the target breaks the ice from outside, the target is stunned 1 and takes any damage dealt by the breaking effect in excess of the ice's Hit Points. Critical Failure As failure, but the target takes double damage and is initially slowed 2. Heightened (+1) Increase the cold damage by 2d6.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

On the throne of Irrisen sits a murdered princess, pulled back to life from down among the earth around her family's bones. With no place left to her in a nation that rejected kings and queens, she traveled instead to a land of fairy tales, where her royal blood was not so threatening. A crown of ice now adorns her head, placed there by her grandmother Baba Yaga. The Winter Queen Anastasia rules with what small joys she can offer and what little skill she has. She never expected to rule, but she never expected to die, and the cold of her kingdom is nothing to the chill of her grave.