# BELIMARIUS AND SORSHEN

# FAMILIAR FACES Belimarius and Sorshen both returned to modern-day Golarion in the Return of the Runelords Adventure Path. _Legends_ assumes that when the heroes who defeated Runelord Karzoug mysteriously went missing, Sorshen aided a new group of adventurers—as played by the PCs—against her former colleagues. While trying to right a rewritten timeline, the PCs freed Belimarius and the city of Xin-Edasseril from stasis and returned it to the land of Varisia.

# BELIMARIUS AND Sorshen

# RUNELOREDS OF THASSILON Belimarius and Sorshen are living legends, powerful Thassilonian wizards that avoided the destruction of Earthfall and re-emerged, founding New Thassilon in the ruins of their ancient empire. Composed of two realms, Edasseril and Eurythnia, their nation is a collision of past and present. Runelord Belimarius clings to the traditions and tyranny of ancient Thassilon, while Queen Sorshen embraces the new, modern world and its people.

BELIMARIUS

# RULER OF EDASSERIL LE FEMALE HUMAN RUNELORD Runelord Belimarius rose to her position through blackmail, slander, theft, and murder, ruthlessly disposing of her rivals with wit and wizardry. A practiced politician, Belimarius became a brutal tyrant unafraid of shedding blood. She was the most effective ruler Edasseril had ever seen, but even as her nation prospered, Belimarius never enjoyed the respect of her fellow runelords. Considered to be one of the weakest among the seven, she brooded and plotted her years away, crafting bargains and planning coups. Her petty grasping at power ended abruptly when Runelord Karzoug sabotaged her efforts to escape Earthfall. Her city of Xin-Edasseril was encapsulated in an impenetrable globe of force while she, her people, and the city were locked inside a time loop, reliving the same week over and over again for 10,000 years. As the ages wore on, Xin-Edasseril faded to myth, with most calling the entrapped city "Crystilan."

With her people and city now freed from her temporal prison by the meddling of heroes, Runelord Belimarius has stepped out of time to reassert her rule and lead her nation back to its former heights of prestige and prosperity.

# Reclamation Finding herself surrounded by enemies on all sides—thieves that have stolen her lands, traitors that have forsaken the legacy of Thassilon, and upstarts that seek to undermine her glorious return—Runelord Belimarius has rebuilt her armies and expanded her territory, pushing into the Mierani Forest, Ironbound Islands, and Varisia's Nolands. This aggressive expansion has brought her into conflict with bandits, outcasts, elves, and a few linnorm kings, but it has also won her the fealty of giant clans, xulgath clutches, and more. Despite her mounting victories, the imperious runelord desires more majestic servants, offering high prices for dragon eggs and wyrmlings.

While the armies of Edasseril crushed the unpopular linnorm king Opir Eightfingers (CN male human barbarian) in response to his brash provocations, White Estrid's forces in Flintyreach have been canny enough to deny Belimarius any pretense to retaliate. Belimarius instead plots to slay White Estrid's linnorm servant Boiltongue and claim his head, an act that could simultaneously depose White Estrid and give Belimarius a legitimate claim to the throne of Halgrim. Despite expanding on multiple fronts, Runelord Belimarius remains sequestered in Xin-Edasseril's palace, Miasmoria. Loathe to put herself at risk and paranoid of others seeking to claim what is hers, Belimarius issues commands via loyal

servants, magical decrees, and hired mercenaries. Many of these mercenaries are directed toward Thassilonian monuments and vaults that Belimarius desires to claim. Primary among these locations was the Rune-Crossed Crucible, a magical laboratory built upon a powerful confluence of ley lines. Much to the runelord's ire, the site no longer exists, having been plucked from the Material Plane and stolen away by the sorceress Hao Jin. Belimarius has vowed to address this heinous theft, though she has yet to retaliate against the so-called Ruby Phoenix. Of late, Belimarius has also shown interest in claiming the ancient Thassilonian artifacts known as runewells. These devices stored the sins of slain mortals and, if repaired, could enable Belimarius to raise an army of sinspawn. Fortunately for her enemies, the components necessary to complete such repairs are difficult to acquire.

Domination Despite Runelord Belimarius's efforts to stamp out all traces of insurrection, rumors of discontent circulate, and seditious posters have been spotted throughout Xin-Edasseril. Citizens spreading subversive sentiments are violently detained and usually conscripted into military service, though a rare few vanish completely. Belimarius seethes over every treasonous act, blaming Sorshen for sowing discontent among her people. Though she won't move publicly against Sorshen, Belimarius is already planning methods for her mercenaries to cause upheaval in Eurythnia.

A growing number of charismatic wizards have also founded cults and cabals, proclaiming themselves the next runelords of the various unclaimed sins. Prominent among them is the conjurer **Aethusa the Thrice-Born Queen** (CE female human runelord). Claiming to be the reincarnated soul of two previous runelords, Aethusa seeks the runelord crown of sloth. Runelord Belimarius intends to add the audacious impostor to her collection of conquered foes: she plans to trap Aethusa alive in a coffin made of force, as Belimarius did to her own predecessor, Runelord Phirandi. That she has yet to corner the young conjurer has convinced Belimarius that spies hide among her soldiers, though her efforts to expose them have failed. Belimarius would pay well for actionable information on the traitorous impostor Aethusa.

Belimarius's most irritating adversary is **Vexnill** (LN female human ghost), the ghost of a child she murdered in her quest to become a runelord. The impish spirit enjoys playing all manner of pranks on Belimarius and her servants, interrupting meetings and events with mocking imitations and rude songs. That the runelord's spells seem unable to harm the giggling girl has left Belimarius absolutely furious—an outcome Vexnill finds endlessly amusing.

Runelord Belimarius has conquered adversity, countless rivals, time, and death. She saved her people from catastrophe, bringing them from the brink of extinction to a place of power and security. Yet no amount of accolades, territory, or wealth is enough for her. She views the world with cold thoughtfulness, coveting that which she does not possess and scheming to acquire it.

SORSHEN RULER OF EURYTHNIA CN FEMALE HUMAN RUNELORD Among the most powerful of the runelords, Sorshen, runelord of lust, assisted First King Xin in establishing the empire of Thassilon. She ruled over the realm of Eurythnia in Thassilon for its entire existence. She watched dozens of other

## PEOPLE OF NOTE Ardax the White-Hair (page 16), Baba Yaga (page 30), Hao Jin (page 46), Nocticula (*Lost Omens Gods and Magic* 68), Tar-Baphon (page 104), White Estrid (page 116)

# RELICS OF THE RUNELORDS The runelords of Thassilon created countless magical objects and artifacts, many of which survive to this day. Prominent among them are the _Blood Engines of Eurythnia, Chalice of Lissala, Everdawn Pool, Gluttonous Tome, God Pool, Invidian Eye, Leng Device, Mirror of Sorshen_, and _Sihedron_, as well as the _runewells_ and _scintillating garments_.

# Seven Swords of Sin Intelligent blades wielded by the runelord's most devoted champions, the Seven Swords of Sin (also known as Alara'hai or the Seven Blades of Conviction) have mostly gone inert. They were known as Asheia, Sword of Lust; Baraket, Sword of Pride; Chellan, Sword of Greed; Garvok, Sword of Wrath; Shin-Tari, Sword of Sloth; Tannaris, Sword of Envy; and Ungarato, Sword of Gluttony.

# Seven Weapons of Rule First King Xin crafted potent magical polearms for his runelords called the Seven Weapons of Rule (also known as Alara'quin). These are *Alaznist's Hateful Ranseur, Belimarius's Invidious Halberd, Karzoug's Burning Glaive, Krune's Dragontooth Spear, Sorshen's Sinuous Guisarme, Xanderghul's Flawless Hammer, and Zutha's Reaping Scythe.*

# SORSHEN'S PATRONAGE Queen Sorshen adores being among her people, regularly attending gatherings and festivals throughout her nation. She takes pride in inspiring her subjects to greater accomplishments, often visiting artists, musicians, philosophers, and political exiles. The existence of Sorshen's seven blood simulacra, which she sends in her place for safety reasons, is not common

knowledge, though how heavily she utilizes them is a closely guarded secret. Adventurers seeking Queen Sorshen's patronage must treat her respectfully, usually while accomplishing a series of mundane tasks for her pleasure, such as acquiring her favorite perfume, taming a wild beast, or hosting a social event.

These tasks always contain hidden pitfalls, but adventurers who prevail without offending her find steady work battling monsters, bandits, and gangs, clearing out the tangled catacombs of the hypogeum, and closing planar rifts near the peak of Mhar Massif, a mountain which now bears the sigil of New Thassilon upon its face in place of its original decoration—the visage of now-dead Runelord Karzoug.

runelords rise and fall during her 1,200-year reign, surviving and surpassing them with caution and cunning. She made extensive use of divinations, employed legions of slavishly loyal servants, manipulated the dreams of others, and created numerous blood simulacra doubles of herself to interact with the world, as well as many powerful artifacts, including the first runewell. She acted with well-planned purpose, hiding her devious machinations under a vivacious veneer.

Eternally youthful, with a beguiling voice and seductive smile, Runelord Sorshen indulged in all manner of salacious pursuits. A powerful enchantress and politician, she exploited the desires of her rivals with practiced subtlety, turning those that resisted into dominated thralls. As cruel and sadistic as any of her fellow runelords, she manipulated allies and enemies alike, paying for her deeds with the blood of others and reveling in the aftermath.

Reflection Sorshen waited out Earthfall in her personal demiplane, the Eye of Desire, tended by favored servants and bound extraplanar creatures. Over millennia of waiting, her carnal appetites waned and her thoughts turned inward to her life, goals, and fallen empire. She stirred back to awareness when her runewell rippled with echoes of power. Curious, she watched and waited, scrying on a world she no longer recognized only to witness her contemporaries cut down by heroes of the new age. In the years since, Sorshen has rediscovered Golarion and its people, meditated on her seemingly endless and pointless sins, and concluded that a personal transformation would be necessary if she wished to survive. With an eye to the future, she freed her thralls, relocated many of her beloved artifacts into the Eye of Desire, and allied with heroes to save the Saga Lands from Runelord Alaznist.

In the aftermath, Queen Sorshen rebuilt Eurythnia in the Kodar Mountains, ruling from the city of Xin-Shalast. She works to re-establish extensive mining of the region's rich mineral deposits, though many promising locations are infested with monsters, including kobolds, yetis, and **Shardrex** (CE remorhaz aberration), a malformed remorhaz tainted by longtime contact with the nightmare realm of Leng. Guided by Sorshen's blossoming faith in Nocticula, the Redeemer Queen, Eurythnia is a refuge that welcomes artists, outcasts, and the oppressed.

**POLITICS** Seemingly repentant over her past sins, Queen Sorshen has established herself as a confident, level-headed ruler who has forged pacts of peace with her neighbors, though her detractors question if this new worldview is simply another form of manipulation. A minority of her subjects, primarily the recently established wizard cabal Xin's Chosen, believe that by abandoning her past, Sorshen has forfeited her right to rule Thassilon.

Queen Sorshen has renounced her claim to her ancient seat of power, the Grand Mastaba of Korvosa, and given the city's ruler her public blessing. She has encouraged the Sihedron Council of Magnimar to continue their study of Thassilon, offering them a bargain for her insights if they can return to her the *veritas orb*, a powerful artifact Sorshen believes lost in the Mushfens.

Growing numbers of orcs have fled war with the Whispering Tyrant and entered Eurythnia as refugees, though this has done little to strain relations with the Hold's leader, Overlord Ardax. On the contrary, Ardax seems unconcerned over these defectors and has recently formed a nonaggression accord with the new monarch. The pair have met a dozen times in the last year, causing many to gossip over the purpose of these continued meetings and whether Sorshen continues her use of plying enchantments in secret.

Despite Queen Sorshen's efforts to initiate diplomatic relations with Queen **Anastasia of Irrisen** (LN female human winter queen), Baba Yaga is proving a constant thorn in her side. Though the old crone is rumored to be banished from

Golarion, Sorshen is convinced at least some of the cursed items and unseasonable blizzards that stray into Eurythnia are the deliberate work of the cackling witch. Sorshen's poorest relations are with her counterpart in New Thassilon, and she knows it's only a matter of time before she's forced to interfere with Belimarius's expansionist regime. Although she'd prefer to avoid killing the sadistic old woman, she worries any nonlethal outcome will leave Belimarius nursing a grudge. For now, Sorshen has decided to leave Belimarius to her own devices, hoping local heroes will topple the tyrant for her.

Scholars and spellcasters have journeyed to Eurythnia in droves, seeking wisdom from the past. Sorshen welcomes these visitors with open arms. That few of these intellectuals decide to return home has caused some to accuse Sorshen of magically charming them to empower her nation. Queen Sorshen has responded to such accusations with a dimpled smile.

# MAGIC OF NEW THASSILON The runelords of ancient Thassilon pushed the boundaries of magic, creating new spells and school specializations. Though many of their discoveries are common knowledge, others remain lost to the ravages of time or are closely guarded by select practitioners. Below are two spells the rulers of New Thassilon can teach to casters, as a reward for service or a lesson for aspiring apprentices.

AROMATIC LURE SPELL 4 RARE EMOTION ENCHANTMENT INCAPACITATION MENTAL Traditions arcane, occult Cast somatic, verbal Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature Saving Throw Will; Duration varies You override a target's olfactory senses, luring them to a specific location through tantalizing false scents. Select a single square within range that is not hazardous or occupied by a creature. The target is drawn to the selected location, becoming euphoric upon arrival. The target must attempt a Will save.

Critical Success The target is unaffected. Success The target is distracted by the tantalizing scents, becoming stupefied 1 for 1 round.

**Failure** The target is stupefied 2 and moves toward the selected location via the most direct route possible for 1 round, bypassing any obvious hazards and enemies in the way.

**Critical Failure** The target is stupefied 4 and moves to the selected location via the most direct route possible for 1 round, bypassing any obvious hazards and enemies in the way. If the creature reaches the destination, it must remain in that location for 1d4 rounds but can otherwise act normally.

**Heightened (+2)** You target 1 additional creature, selecting a different square within range as their destination.

REBOUNDING BARRIER SPELL 4 RARE ABJURATION Traditions arcane, occult Cast verbal; Trigger You are hit by a physical Strike. You swiftly raise a reflective barrier, reducing physical damage and rebounding it onto your attacker. You gain resistance 10 against one physical damage type the triggering attack deals. Your attacker takes 5 damage of the same type.

**Heightened (+1)** The resistance increases by 2. Damage dealt to your attacker increases by 1.

OLD HOBBIES, NEW MARKETS In her free time, the former Runelord Sorshen has taken to creating perfumes, both of old formulas and new scents. Though she hasn't gone out of her way to sell her creations, her reputation has seen the fragrances slowly make their way to exclusive collectors at high prices.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX