# CAMILIA DRANNOCH

She is passionate, compelling, and brilliant, from ever since she was a child. And this world has no shortage of graves filled with the passionate, the compelling, and the brilliant–and most of all the young, all of whom were destined for great things. —Queen Telandia Edasseril

# CAMILIA DRANNOCH ## TENACIOUS REVOLUTIONARY POLITICIAN CN FEMALE HUMAN BARD A cunning and clever figure, Chairwoman Camilia Drannoch of the Revolutionary Council is currently one of the few politicians widely respected throughout Galt. Her dedication to the ideals of revolution and her widely espoused patriotism drove her popularity among revolutionaries and common citizenry.

# AN UNCOMMON MIND Born during the Red Revolution, Camilia escaped the early chaos alongside her mother, Apalma Drannoch, who served as the Galtan ambassador to Kyonin. Camilia spent her youth among the elves, rapidly coming of age in Idara to the curious delight of the elven courts. She devoured her studies and proved to have an unusually sharp mind for someone so young, but it wasn't long before the Red Revolution called the family home. As they crossed the border, a pair of Gray Gardeners—the hooded executioners of the Galtan revolution—apprehended Apalma, dragging her through the streets of Isarn before delivering her to the _final blade, Silence_. Watching her mother lose her head and soul to the bloody guillotine shattered Camilia's world and served as her introduction to her homeland of Galt.

Camilia threw herself into politics, mourning her mother and burning with spite toward the Gray Gardeners. She rapidly gained followers with her passionate words and radical ideals. It seemed then that she made a grave error, openly questioning the Gray Gardeners' methods during a speech beside the _final blade_ that had murdered her mother. The young revolutionary found herself spirited away under the light of a full moon, a black bag covering her head. Her kidnappers promised her a kiss from _Silence_ to reunite her with her beloved family.

logo: partial image of a hand and arm, possibly part of a larger illustration 15 years later, Camilia Drannoch reappeared on the streets of Isarn. Her old enemies were dead through one end or another, and the Red Revolution had carried on gloriously without her. Upon exposing the Eye of Law—the ruling council of Galt at the time— a s a hag coven, Camilia Drannoch became a household name. She was immediately bequeathed a seat on the new Revolutionary Council formed to lead the nation, and she has maintained it ever since.

Camilia has since survived multiple regime changes, making her one of the few politicians to ever consistently navigate the treacherous tides of Galtan politics. She saw Citizen Goss thrown down to the rabid crowd and took his place as the chair of the Revolutionary Council. She enacted several popular reforms to bring a small sense of stability back to the nation, notably when she announced an end to the xenophobic policies that had damaged Galt's economic and political security. Her web of allies and resources extend throughout and beyond Galt, rewarding her supporters with prestige and power. Her detractors, however, are often either murdered by the mob or found dead, marred by deep blade wounds, their souls nowhere to be found.

Camilia sees the Red Revolution as part of a rising tide of change, mirrored by the earth-shattering events taking place across the continent. In her mind, all of Golarion is primed to overthrow its outdated modes of thinking, as evidenced by recent uprisings and successful abolition efforts. She openly supports the rebels of Vidrian and Kintargo while also planting her own agents to speed such efforts along.

Breaking the cycle of death that is the Red Revolution has proven to be Camilia's greatest challenge. She knows the country will never realize its full potential while the _final blades_ contribute to its cultural decline. Camilia has been building toward this moment for decades, since her own mother lost her life to the wicked devices, and she hopes that the removal of Galt's _final blades_ and dissolution of the Gray Gardeners will be her legacy.

# THE FACE OF THE REVOLUTION Camilia cares desperately for the souls locked away in the _final blades_ and has turned to Geb as an unlikely ally, where death has revolutionized what it means to live. She sent envoys to the undead country seeking to foster an alliance with the grand necromancer, offering intelligence on both the nation and Spire of Nex in exchange for Geb freeing the stored souls of her fellow citizens. This is an ideal solution for Camilia, as the souls can either exist freely in Geb or pass onto their final judgment as they choose—and while Geb is a difficult ruler to reason with for both the living and the dead, his obsession with the archmage Nex and his lack of living spies to infiltrate his rival's nation has left him considering the offer.

Though Camilia has done her best to improve foreign relations after the damage done by her predecessor, Galt's notorious instability has made this an uphill battle. Though Grand Princess Eutropia has offered Taldor's friendship to the Revolutionary Council, the recent Taldan civil war has left her wary of anything resembling revolution. Camilia believes Eutropia is holding herself back from realizing Taldor's true potential; she wants to push Eutropia further and radicalize the new grand princess.

Camilia has diligently pursued an alliance with Andira Marusek of Andoran, in part to contrast herself publicly with Citizen Korran Goss, but also because Andira shares her wish to see the end of the *final blades*. Camilia knows that Andira would balk at some of the more violent things she's done to secure Galt's future, so she has thus far limited the information Andira receives to what she wants Andira to hear.

Though Camilia spent her childhood in Kyonin, she never fell in love with the country. Queen Telandia Edasseril ruled as monarch and yet was reluctant to rally the elves toward any cause, leaving Kyonin seemingly adrift between the worst aspects of freedom and autocracy. Though Camilia has so far been diplomatic to the elven queen, she ultimately sees Telandia as an obstacle. The outward appearance of a close relationship between Camilia and the female rulers of Galt's neighboring nations has not gone unnoticed, however; some of Camilia's detractors have begun to refer to them collectively as the "Four Queens," which only fuels Camilia's discontent.

# THE WEIGHT OF LOSS Though she has learned to keep her dissent against the Grey Gardeners from becoming public, Camilia is never seen without a pair of striking accessories. She wears a polished steel choker and a red scarf around her neck at all times, a reminder of the weight of Galt's troubles and the bloody price her family paid because of it.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

# A WEB OF INTRIGUE Camilia is determined to prove that Galt is a player on the world's stage. Its prestigious universities may be destroyed, its people starving, its once-idyllic countryside now teeming with brigands—but none of that can hold back the Galtan spirit. Another revolution would hurt her goals; she instead takes on spies and agents, sending them across Galt to seek out information on the Gray Gardeners and others who would undermine Camilia's position. Only Camilia's most trusted agents know of her efforts to destroy the final blades and the Gray Gardeners. The people of Galt would doubtless reject her should they learn of her plan to end the blades' hold on the country, and all of Camilia's careful work will have been for naught. When she does strike against the Gardeners, it must be quick, and it must be final.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Andira Marusek (page 12), Eutropia Stavian (page 42), Geb (page 44), Nex (page 90), Telandia Edasseril (page 106)