# Entwined Destinies

GENIE-TOUCHED COMPANIONS (RARE) Xerystes II has had his palace spellcasters work to develop ways to replicate the great powers of the genie-touched horses of Qadira. These spellcasters have a rudimentary method in place that can grant such power to any animal companion, infusing them with elemental power and granting them otherworldly insight. Xerystes will sometimes gift these companions as a favor to others or have his spellcasters infuse the companions of trusted allies.

If you take a feat that would normally allow you to choose to have a savage or nimble animal companion, you can instead choose to for it to become a genie-touched companion. When you choose the feat, select the type of genie whose power infuses your companion. The genies and their elemental traits are as follows: djinni (air), efreeti (fire), marid (water), or shaitan (earth). A genie-touched companion increases its Wisdom modifier by 2 and its Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution modifiers by 1. It deals 3 additional damage with its unarmed attacks; this damage is fire damage for an efreet-touched companion or of the same type as the unarmed attack for the others. It gains resistance 5 to damage of a type depending on the genie: acid for djinni, fire for efreeti or marid, and electricity for shaitan. If the companion is djinni-touched or efreeti-touched, increase its proficiency rank in Acrobatics to expert; if it is marid-touched or shaitan-touched, increase its proficiency rank in Athletics to expert. It also learns the advanced maneuver for its type. Its attacks count as magical for the purpose of ignoring resistances and gain the genie's elemental trait. Genie-touched companions can choose from the following options when they become specialized animal companions.

Deep Diver Your companion gains a swim Speed of 30 feet or a +10-foot status bonus to its existing swim Speed and can breathe underwater if it couldn't already. Its Constitution modifier increases by 1. Its proficiency rank for Athletics increases to master and for barding increases to expert. This specialization can only be selected by marid-touched companions.

Steadfast Strider Your companion ignores natural difficult terrain and greater difficult terrain from sediment or stone and can move across quicksand, mud, and similar surfaces as if they were solid. It gains a +2 status bonus to saving throws and DCs to prevent being Shoved or Tripped. Its Strength modifier increases by 1 and its proficiency for barding increases to expert. This specialization can only be selected by shaitan-touched companions.

Wildfire Scorcher Your companion gains resistance to fire equal to your level. Any creature that attempts to Grapple or Grab your companion, hits your companion with a melee unarmed attack, or hits your companion with a melee weapon Strike while adjacent to your companion takes 2d6 fire damage. Its Dexterity modifier increases by 1 and its proficiency rank increases to legendary for Reflex saves and to expert for unarmored defense. This specialization can only be selected by efreeti-touched companions.

Wind Chaser Your companion gains a +20-foot status bonus to its Speed or fly Speed (your choice if it has both). Its proficiency in Acrobatics increases to master and its Dexterity modifier increases by 1. Its proficiency rank increases to legendary for Reflex saves and to expert for unarmored defense. This specialization can only be selected by djinni-touched companions.

# ENTWINED DESTINIES The NPCs presented in this book are mired in a number of plot threads, some of which are described here.

# THE ALLIANCE AGAINST TAR-BAPHON The rise of the Whispering Tyrant has forced old enemies and unlikely friends to unite under one banner, though the Living God Razmir is secretly feeding Tar-Baphon's armies with Razmiran's dead.

# THE FIGHT FOR ABOLITION Recent victories like **Wynsal Starborn**'s ban on slavery and the revolution spearheaded by rebels such as **Avarneus** and **Shimali Manux** have emboldened abolitionists around the Inner Sea region, such as Shahiyan **Deena al-Parishat**, who might be backed by her husband Satrap **Xerbytes II**. **Andira Marusek** has been preying on slaver ships from ports overseen by **Hashim ibn Sayyid**. In return, Hashim has been sending aid to Queen **Abrogail Thrune II**. The queen has also been enslaving refugees from **Tar-Baphon** and has ordered the deaths of Farmers **Magdelena and Martum Fallows**, who work with Andira to help slaves escape. The two Farmers are unwittingly compromised, as a previous Farmer was captured by Lictor **Toulon Vidoc**.