# GEB

putting Taldor's financial house in order, working to root out corruption, and installing loyal and competent agents in positions of power—all necessary but tedious tasks. In terms of tactics, Eutropia has a marked preference for soft power and using discreet groups of agents, and I've already heard her called the Queen of Spies.

Among her allies, Eutropia counts Ladies Martella Lotheed (part-Qadiran scion of the ancient Lotheed family) and Gloriana Morilla (of the Absalom Morillas and with connections to the Pathfinder Society) as her closest confidantes. Dominicus Rell, the leader of the Lion Blades, continues to serve Eutropia as he did her father, and acts as her liaison to the more recalcitrant nobles. Dominicus seems distressingly loyal to the nation of Taldor, though his struggles with Eutropia over who ultimately has control over the other are quite fascinating to watch.

Unfortunately, not everyone is so fond of her. Oppara has enough conspiracies that even the underground mithraeaums have scheduling issues, and several of these are less than benign. The Cult of the Twilight Child worships Carrius as Taldor's savior, regardless of the poor youth's ideas on the matter, and several old allies of former High Strategos Maxillar Pythareus have formed a semisecret pact in the military known as the Ninth Army. I've also heard rumors of some severe issues relating to foreign investments, which sounds dreadfully dull until you realize just how much money is involved. Most curious, graffiti depicting a three-headed crow has been popping up all over Oppara, to the confusion of most and the abject terror of a few.

Finally, after the recent troubles, the question of succession is never far from people's minds. Eutropia is unmarried and seems inclined to remain so. Her brother Carrius is her heir; nearly twenty years younger by quirk of magic and known for his gentle and thoughtful personality, the youth is presently the most eligible bachelor in the Inner Sea region. Oppara is positively swarming with pretty girls (and boys) with sterling political connections and impressive dowries. The sight is endlessly amusing, but not all the hopefuls are inclined to leave such a thing to chance—or to Carrius. Since taking the throne, Eutropia has sent emissaries of friendship to all her neighbors, including Andoran's Andira Marusek, Galt's Camilia Drannoch, and Kyonin's Telandia Edasseril, with mixed success; Taldor's history as the regional hegemon keeps relations from getting too cozy. She's also been negotiating a new trade pact with Katapesh's Hashim ibn Sayyid and has lent quiet support to Lady Darchana's efforts to become primarch of Absalom. Relations with Satrap Xerbystes II of Qadira are a bit thornier; rumor has it that there were a few exchanges of assassins and agents before Xerbystes was forced to pull his horns in by his vizier.

Ultimately, I like Eutropia. She has the instincts of a Norgorberite, though I doubt she'd appreciate the compliment. Regardless, we can expect little help with our own problems from our coreligionists, so I shall be sailing back home with the next tide.

Your disobedient servant, S. Maleagant Senior Priest-Advocate of the Court of Black Paper

## PEOPLE OF NOTE Andira Marusek (page 12), Camilia Drannoch (page 38), Prince Carrius II (NG male human medium), Lady Darchana (N female human wizard), Dominicus Rell (N male human Lion Blade), Lady Gloriana Morilla (CN female human aristocrat), Hashim ibn Sayyid (page 50), Hebizid Vraj (page 120), Lady Martella Lotheed (N female human spymaster), Norgorber (*Lost Omens Gods and Magic* 36), Samel Maleagant (NE male human rogue), Telandia Edasseril (page 106), Xerystes II (page 120)

Eutropia aims to make Taldor the cultural capital of the Inner Sea region once more. If she has her way, it won't be too long before everyone is again reading Taldan books, eating Taldan food, and listening to Taldan

songs. And a few of her moody traveling poets also happen to be secret members of the Lion Blades, should soft words fail and a sharp knife become necessary.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M

ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

# QUIET NEIGHBORS Despite the malicious nature of most of its leadership, the nation of Geb has mainly been a peaceful one since the end of the war with Nex, showing no signs of expansion and only retaliating if provoked. After four centuries of calmly trading food for goods with other nations, even the most murderous Gebbite blood lords had grown used to the situation, and are now uneasy at the current change.

GEB

# GHOST KING LE MALE HUMAN GHOST NECROMANCER It is difficult to tell the story of the necromancer Geb without chronicling his centuries-long feud with the archmage Nex. The two great wizards of the Age of Destiny had no peer save one another, and so their proximity fostered rivalry, their rivalry gradually turned to obsession, and their obsession bloomed into all-out war. They unleashed unfathomable calamities against each other's nations to further their battle, permanently devastating the surrounding landscape with magical fallout.

Eventually, Geb gained the upper hand by casting forth a great storm of poison on the capital of Nex, killing thousands. In the aftermath, there was no sign of Geb's rival archmage, who had escaped into a magical refuge only to vanish from Golarion entirely. While history claimed this as Geb's victory, it rang hollow to the necromancer, who believed Nex had not only survived his final attack but was merely biding his time until the chance came to retaliate. Geb scoured the globe for any power that would let him discover Nex's true fate, until he drove himself into despair with his own paranoia and finally took his own life. Yet even death could not deny Geb's vendetta; consumed by anguish and surrounded by necromancy, his suicide trapped his spirit on the Material Plane as a ghost. With no purpose and no escape, Geb languished on the throne of a kingdom he felt no affection for. Many of his subjects chose to follow Geb into undeath, leaving him with the rotting corpse of the nation he had founded. His only relief came in the form of tiny sparks of emotion across the ages, when it seemed something might challenge him. When the Holy Knights of Ozem attacked his kingdom, he retaliated by stealing the corpse of their god's deceased herald, Arazni, and turning her into his undead queen regent. When the armies of Holomog marched on Geb's borders, he unleashed a spell that turned every warrior to stone and rained down a cataclysm on their capital city. No matter how many potential rivals rose against him, none could withstand even his opening salvo. Each time he dashed a new foe, he sank deeper into despair, unmoved by opponents that lacked even a fraction of Nex's power.

With the lich Queen Arazni running the day-to-day affairs of the nation, Geb retreated further into seclusion. Generations passed between sightings of the necromancer, and for many, it seemed best to ignore him and hope that he would waste away if left alone. Even many of the undead citizens of Geb preferred the efficient—if occasionally vindictive—rule of the enslaved Arazni to the erratic and violent whims of their king. In this age of relative peace, Geb nearly achieved true political significance on the world stage, despite the many nations unwilling to deal with undead as equals.

That all changed the day Nex's great engines of war, the fleshforges, began to activate on their own. Mighty beasts and monsters more powerful than anything the arclords had summoned in over a thousand years marched south into the Mana Wastes. They were the most wondrous sight Geb had seen since the height of the war. The day Geb had yearned for over countless lifetimes had finally come, and it was time to assemble his forces once again. Now, for the first time in 4,000 years, Geb faces new challenges. During his long wallowing fits, the ghost king failed to notice Arazni's steadily growing independence or even her sudden disappearance as Tar-Baphon stirred far to the north. Without the lich queen, Geb is forced to step forward and act like a true ruler once again. For a war council, he has only his scheming, sycophantic governors, the blood lords, many of whom have taken