# Glossary & Index

# Glossary and Index

This appendix contains brief explanations and page references for the content presented in this book, including new rules, locations, deities, organizations, and so on. New rules content is marked with an asterisk (*).

Absalom The largest city in the Inner Sea region, Absalom was founded by Aroden and is located on Starstone Isle. Absalom, City of Lost Omens 3 Achaekek Lawful evil god of assassins, divine punishment, and the Red Mantis. Known as He Who Walks in Blood. Lost Omens Gods & Magic 52 Alijae One of the three subgroups that make up the Mualijae elves, Alijae live in the northern Mwangi Expanse. Lost Omens Character Guide 25 Alkenstar A city-state located in the central Mana Wastes. The city is known for unique technologies, including firearms. Lost Omens World Guide 74–76 Andoran The capital of the nation of Andoran. Andoran A younger nation in southern Avistan known for its adherence to democracy and personal freedom. Lost Omens World Guide 122–124 Asmodeus Lawful evil god of contracts, pride, slavery, and tyranny. Known as the Prince of Darkness. Lost Omens Gods & Magic 14–15 Aspenthar One of the city-states of Thuvia. Aspodell Mountains A mountain range between Andoran and Cheliax. Astral Plane A transitive plane through which all souls pass on their way to their final judgment. Gamemastery Guide 140 Augustana A large port city in southwestern Andoran. Avistan One of Golarion's continents. It makes up the northern half of the Inner Sea region. Lost Omens World Guide 7 Axis A massive planar city that strongly adheres to law, home to the monitors known as aeons. The plane is lawful neutral. Gamemastery Guide 142 Belkzen A region in northwestern Avistan. Known as the home of several orc holds. Lost Omens World Guide 38–40 Bellflower Network This secretive organization is dedicated to the liberation of halfling slaves, especially in Cheliax. Lost Omens Character Guide 65 Brevoy A nation in northeastern Avistan. Known for its political uncertainty. Lost Omens World Guide 26–28 Bright Lion* (archetype) 101 Casanadele Neutral goddess of artificial life, free thinking, and intellectual apotheosis. Known as the Iron Goddess. Lost Omens Gods & Magic 57 Cheliax A nation in southwestern Avistan. Known for its ties to diabolic rule. Lost Omens World Guide 98–100 companion adjustments* 123 contract (trait) A contract is a type of item that magically establishes an agreement between multiple parties and typically grants magical benefits. Crown's End A port city in northwestern Vidrian. Darklands The immense area of caverns, vaults, and passages beneath the surface of Golarion. Lost Omens World Guide 7–8 deities* 100 Dottari The name for city guards in Cheliax. Drezen A city in the Sarkoris Scar once overrun by demons. Eagle Knights A state-funded military sworn to defend Andoran. Some branches work to end slavery. Lost Omens World Guide 112–123 Earthfall A cataclysmic event in –5293 AR, in which a rain of meteorites fell upon Golarion and caused massive destruction. Eleder The capital of former Sargava. The city is now known as Anthusis. Eldest A group of deities that keep their attention on the First World. Eye of Dread The region in central Avistan consisting of the Gravelands, Lake Encarthan, Molthune, Nirmathas, Oprak, and Ustalav. Lost Omens World Guide 36–47 equipment* 24–25, 71–72, 76–77, 80–81, 86 Eye of Dread The region in central Avistan consisting of the Gravelands, Lake Encarthan, Molthune, Nirmathas, Oprak, and Ustalav. Lost Omens World Guide 36–47 feats* 20, 58, 68–69, 72 Firebrands A rebellious organization known for its members' daredevil acts and their work in fighting oppression. Lost Omens Character Guide 66–75 Five Kings Mountains A region in southeast Avistan considered the center of dwarven civilization in the Inner Sea region. Lost Omens World Guide 125–126 Freehold A small town in central Vidrian. Galt A nation in eastern Avistan. Known as a land of constant political upheaval and revolution. Lost Omens World Guide 106 Garund One of Golarion's continents. Its northern portion makes up the southern half of the Inner Sea region. Lost Omens World Guide 8 Goka A large city-state in western Tian Xia. Gravelands The region in central Avistan formerly known as Lastwall. A land where undead and other horrors roam. Lost Omens World Guide 40–41 Great Beyond The collective name for all of the planes of existence of the known multiverse. Lost Omens World Guide 9–10 Hellknights A set of knightly orders with a strict focus on maintaining order, iconic authority in the law. Lost Omens Character Guide 76–85

- **infernal contracts** 10 - Inner Sea This sea cradled between Avistan and Garund was created by the reshaping of the region during Earthfall. - Iomedae Lawful good goddess of honor, justice, rulership, and valor. Known as the Inheritor. Lost Omens Gods & Magic 28–29 - Irrisen This nation in northwestern Avistan is known for its constant winter and is ruled by winter witches. Lost Omens World Guide 110–112 - Isarn Isarn is the capital of the nation of Galt. - Isle of Terror A small island in the center of Lake Encarthan that serves as the Whispering Tyrant's center of operations. Lost Omens World Guide 41 - Jalmeray An island nation off the eastern coast of Garund, Jalmeray is home to immigrants from the region of Vudra. Lost Omens World Guide 77–79 - Kalabuto The largest city in Vidrian. - Katapesh This nation on the northeastern coast of Garund is known for its markets. Lost Omens World Guide 51–52 - Kintargo Kintargo is the capital of the nation of Ravounel. - Knights of Lastwall The remaining knights of fallen Lastwall, who seek to destroy the Whispering Tyrant. Lost Omens Character Guide 86–95 - Knights of Lastwall feats* 68–69 - Kortos The island that Aroden raised along with the Starstone and on which Absalom was built. Also called Starstone Isle. Lost Omens World Guide 14 - Kraggodan A dwarven Sky Citadel located in the southern Mindspin Mountains in Nirmathas. - Kyonin A nation in central Avistan. Known as the center of elven culture in Avistan. Lost Omens World Guide 127–128 - Lacunafex A network of spies that operates throughout Cheliax and is based out of Kintargo. - Lake of Mists and Veils A large lake in northeastern Avistan. Lost Omens World Guide 28 - Lands of the Linnorm Kings This region in northwestern Avistan is known for its harsh environs and fierce leaders. Lost Omens World Guide 112–113 - Lastwall A destroyed nation that was founded to watch over Gallowspire, the former prison of the lich Tar-Baphon. Lost Omens World Guide 40–41 - Magaambya The oldest academy of arcane learning in the Inner Sea Region is located in the city of Nantambu. Lost Omens Character Guide 96–105 - magic items* 28, 48 - Magnimar A major city-state in Varisia. Known as the City of Monuments. - Mana Wastes This region located in eastern Garund is known for its areas of dead and wild magic. Lost Omens World Guide 79–80 - Material Plane The plane that encompasses the known universe, including Golarion. Located within the Inner Sphere. Gamemastery Guide 138–139 - Mediogalti Island This large island off the northwestern coast of Garund is home to the Red Mantis assassins. Lost Omens World Guide 65–66 - Mendev This nation in northeastern Avistan is a launching point for crusades against the demons of the Sarkoris Scar. Lost Omens World Guide 28–29 - Molthune This nation in central Avistan is dominated by its military and is at war with Nirmathas. Lost Omens World Guide 42 - Mwangi Expanse This area in northern central Garund consists of most of the regions in and around the Mwangi Jungle, including the nation of Vidrian. Lost Omens World Guide 84–95 - New Thassilon This young nation in northwest Avistan is home to time-displaced Thassilonians. Lost Omens World Guide 113–115 - Nidal This nation along the southwest coast of Avistan is watched over by Zon-Kuthon. Lost Omens World Guide 102–103 - Nirmathas A nation located in central Avistan, Nirmathas is known for its wilder­ness and war with Molthune. Lost Omens World Guide 43 - Numeria This nation in northeast Avistan is known for unique technology salvaged from a fallen starship. Lost Omens World Guide 29–30 - Oprak A nation in central Avistan, Oprak is home to hobgoblins who won the land by force. Lost Omens World Guide 44 - Pathfinder Society This globe-trotting organization is dedicated to exploration and the reclamation of lost relics. Lost Omens Character Guide 106–115 - Qadira A nation located in southeast Avistan, Qadira is the westernmost satrapy of the Padishah Empire of Kelesh. Lost Omens World Guide 54–55 - Quantium Quantium is the capital of the nation of Nex. - Rahadoum A nation located in northwest Garund, Rahadoum famously prohibits religious practice of any kind. Lost Omens World Guide 55–56 - Razmiran A nation located in central Avistan. Known as the home of Razmir and his church. Lost Omens World Guide 30–31 - Red Mantis assassins feats* 55 - River Kingdoms This region in northeast Avistan is made up of dozens of small kingdoms struggling for dominance. Lost Omens World Guide 31–32 - Runelord A powerful wizard who ruled in ancient Thassilon. Each runelord is tied to an aspect of sin magic. - Sarenrae Neutral good goddess of healing, honesty, redemption, and the sun.

**Sargava** This nation was originally part of the empire of Cheliax before breaking off into an independent state. A recent revolution has led Sargava to become the new nation of Vidrian.

Sarkoris Scar A region located in northern Avistan. The previous site of the demonic Worldwound. Lost Omens World Guide 32-33 Shackles A collection of islands off the western coast of Garund, the Shackles are known for rampant piracy. Lost Omens World Guide 67-68 Silver Ravens This rebel group helped liberate the city of Kintargo and establish the nation of Ravounel.

**Sivanah** Neutral goddess of illusions, mysteries, reflections, and secrets. Known as the Seventh Veil. *Lost Omens Gods & Magic* 69 **spells** 32, 37, 64–65

**Starstone** A unique gemstone that crashed to Golarion during Earthfall. It was eventually raised by Aroden and placed within the Starstone Cathedral in Absalom. Mortals can attempt to ascend to godhood by reaching the stone and taking the Test of the *Starstone*.

Taldor A nation located in southeast Avistan. This empire in decline seeks to reclaim former glory. Lost Omens World Guide 128–129 Tanglebriar This large swamp in southern Kyonin is the domain of the demon lord Treerazer. Lost Omens World Guide 128

**Thuvia** A nation located in north-central Garund, Thuvia is known for its production of the sun orchid elixir. *Lost Omens World Guide* 56–57

Tian Xia One of Golarion's continents. Located far to the east of the Inner Sea region, past Casmaron. Lost Omens World Guide 9 Treerazer A powerful demon lord banished to Tanglebriar, a swamp in Southern Kyonin. Known as the Lord of the Blasted Tarn. Triaxus Seventh planet from the sun known as the Wanderer. Lost Omens World Guide 9

Ulfen This human ethnicity is common in the northern reaches of Avistan. *Last Omens Character Guide* 9 Urgir Urgir is the unofficial capital of the Hold of Belkzen.

Varisia A region in northwestern Avistan. Known as a frontier land and home to ancient Thassilonian ruins. Lost Omens World Guide 116–117 Varki This human ethnicity is related to the Erutaki, and they live along the mountains of northern Avistan. Lost Omens Character Guide 10

Vidrian This young nation along the western coast of Garund only recently broke free of oppressive colonial rule. Lost Omens World Guide 91–92 Worldwound An enormous rift that opened in the nation of Sarkoris, allowing the demonic hordes of the Abyss to spill forth and destroy the region. It has since been closed, and the demon-blighted land is now known as the Sarkoris Scar. Lost Omens World Guide 26, 32

**Zon-Kuthon** Lawful evil god of darkness, envy, loss, and pain. Known as the Midnight Lord. _Lost Omens Gods & Magic_ 50–51