# HAO JIN

Arazni's defection as a cue to turn upon each other in efforts to gain Geb's favor. His greatest difficulty comes from the very magic that reanimated him, however, as Geb's spirit is bound to the soil of Mechitar, the capital city where his palace rests. Until he can deal with these obstacles, Geb won't be truly ready for Nex's return.

# MARCH TO WAR For the first time in thousands of years, Geb is truly taking stock of his country. In doing so, he discovered that at least three cities, including a necropolis that once held the greatest school of necromancy in all of Geb, have been completely wiped from the map. Some of his more astute subjects have deduced that these locations were taken into the Hao Jin Tapestry but were not restored with the return of the Ruby Phoenix. Geb has sent a small group of ambassadors to the city of Goka to negotiate the return of the necropolis or, failing this, demand the aid of Hao Jin herself as compensation for its loss.

Far to the north, Camilia Drannoch of Galt has been in secret negotiations to rid her country of their *final blades* once and for all. While many have expressed interest in destroying the blades to free the souls trapped within, Geb is more interested in reforging the blades themselves into horrific cleavers to arm his graveknight generals. Since the country of Geb grows far more food than its few living citizens need, it is in an excellent position to bargain with the starving rebels of Galt.

While the dwarven Sky Citadel of Dongun Hold was little more than a footnote in the first war with Nex, this time Geb has been forced to take notice of the dwarven kingdom and the thriving city-state growing in its shadow. With the firearms of Alkenstar and the technological secrets of Dongun Hold, an alliance with High King Anong Arunak is something Geb now sees as in his best interests. Even if the dwarves ultimately prove of little use, snatching away one of Nex's presumed allies would be an amusing preamble to the coming war.

In a desperate bid to free himself of whatever power keeps him trapped in Mechitar, Geb has invited necromancers, clerics of death, mediums, and all manner of occultists to the capital in hopes that one of them will be able to solve the mystery of his curse. Despite his mastery of necromancy, he seems unable to recognize his own nature as a ghost as the culprit of his imprisonment; his suicide and subsequent revival are scars on his memory that he struggles to piece together. He has offered all manner of rewards for anyone who can aid him or, for the more reluctant, a cell in his dungeon until a solution has been found.

While some scramble to choose a side in the looming war, many more wish to stop it before it can even begin, including ambitious liches and vampires who have no desire to play pawns in a ghost king's war games, arclords who will lose all status and authority if Nex returns, and thousands of innocent bystanders who would be caught in the crossfire. Adventurers, pathfinders, and mercenaries all across the Impossible Lands have been hired in secret to find some way to preserve peace. Some of Geb's more traitorous governors plot the ghost king's assassination, ready to claim the throne for themselves, while others seek heroes who can find a way to prevent Nex from ever returning at all. Yet these agents must act with care: there will be no mercy for anyone who denies Geb his chance to face his old foe once again.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Anong Arunak (page 14), Arazni (*Pathfinder Lost Omens Gods and Magic* 54), Camilia Drannoch (page 38), Hao Jin (page 46), Nex (page 90), Tar-Baphon (page 104)

# ACADEMIC PRESSURE Geb seeks new weapons, advantages, and allies to prepare himself for the impending war, especially any that might have extraplanar magic or abilities. He has pushed for greater arcane developments from the various necromantic colleges throughout Geb, such as the Mortuarium in the city of Yled.

- LEGENDS - INTRODUCTION - A–G - H–M - N–Z - ENTWINED DESTINIES - GLOSSARY AND INDEX 45

# FAMILIAR FACES Hao Jin and her tapestry have played a prominent role in the Pathfinder Society organized play campaign over the past decade, with players from around the world deciding the ultimate fate of the sorceress and her magical creation. To help shape the world of Golarion through organized play, visit pathfindersociety.club and join the community!

HAO JIN

PLANE-TRAVELING EXPLORER LN FEMALE HUMAN SORCERER Hao Jin, the Ruby Phoenix, is one of the greatest sorcerers ever to have lived on Golarion. Born in the Tian city of Goka in 4042 AR to an Abadaran priest and a successful painter, Hao Jin lived a privileged childhood. As a youth, she was fascinated by history and spent much of her time in the famed Empress Yin Museum until a bout of reckless play led to a fire that ravaged the museum's collections and claimed her life. Hao Jin's parents spent most of their modest fortune returning her from death, and in doing so awoke a spark of magical potential within her soul. Hao Jin's raven hair turned bright red, scintillating like fire.

Burdened with guilt over her role in the museum's loss and her parents' financial hardships, Hao Jin devoted her life to protecting the world's culture from destruction. After several lifetimes of learning, the Ruby Phoenix created her masterpiece, the famed _Hao Jin Tapestry_. Woven together from her magic, creativity, and skill, the tapestry contained a demiplane that the Ruby Phoenix intended to use as a kind of museum world, allowing her to pluck places and people at risk of destruction from Golarion to preserve them forever within magically regulated biomes.

Her greatest creation complete, Hao Jin departed Golarion to explore the cosmos, eventually arriving in the Eternal City of Axis. Though she dreamed of collaborating with the brilliant aeons who resided there, Hao Jin instead found herself reprimanded. Aeons are beings of absolute order, and they considered the creation of the Hao Jin Tapestry callous, irresponsible, and a threat to the planar stability across all realities. Axis called for the tapestry's destruction, but Hao Jin struck a bargain to save it: she offered to serve the Eternal City and relinquish her memories of the tapestry's creation for study. Axis agreed, and so Hao Jin disappeared from Golarion in 4391 AR for over 300 years.

Assuming the Ruby Phoenix had perished, the city of Goka held a grand martial arts tournament at her estate as her will instructed, with the victor being allowed to claim a single item from Hao Jin's vast treasury. Called the Ruby Phoenix Tournament, this competition was held every 10 years, starting in 4401 AR. At the most recent tournament in 4711 AR, a team of Pathfinder Society agents hand-picked by the Decemvirate were victorious, allowing them to claim the Hao Jin Tapestry.

In the years that followed, Pathfinders studied the Hao Jin Tapestry, exploring Hao Jin's museum world while thwarting the cult of Lissala and the Aspis Consortium; all of them learned that Thassilonian magic could be used to tear rifts in the tapestry for quick travel across Golarion. This consistent abuse took its toll on the artifact, and the tapestry, already in decline due to Hao Jin's absence, rapidly began to unravel. Through the sacrifices of dozens of Pathfinder agents and former Master of Spells Aram Zey, the Pathfinder Society staved off the tapestry's destruction long enough to find Hao Jin, exonerate her in the eyes of Axis and the Boneyard, and recruit her help in returning the tapestry's inhabitants to Tian Xia. This effort bore fruit despite an assault by the hag Aslynn (NE female night hag merchant), but the tapestry itself ripped further in the process, scattering many of its contents across the Astral Plane.

REPAIRING FRAYED THREADS Hao Jin took many steps to craft a worthy legacy on Golarion should she perish unexpectedly, but her 300-year exile in Axis forced her to consider that her true impact was not as she had intended. Instead of considering her a historian and preservationist, the aeons treated her as a nuisance who plundered others' history and heritage. Questioning her life's work and filled with regret, Hao Jin now seeks to help restore what she took and recover what was lost from her tapestry when the night hag Aslynn attacked, a mission that has left her traversing the heart of the Astral Plane.

Yet Hao Jin is not the only legend to recently return from the depths of the past. When the sorceress was initially searching the world for sites for the *Hao Jin Tapestry*

to preserve, she discovered the Rune-Crossed Crucible, an ancient Thassilonian ruin built upon a conflux of major Avistani ley lines just 12 miles south of time-locked Crystilan. Using the culmination of a century's worth of research and planning, Hao Jin wove her tapestry around the crucible, placing it at the heart of her museum world. Upon reawakening to the world, Runelord Belimarius discovered the crucible missing, leading the runelord to use her magic to track down the ruin's fate. Though Belimarius initially contacted Hao Jin regarding its return, the Ruby Phoenix no longer has the building either; when Aslynn attacked the _Hao Jin Tapestry_, the night hag's agents reportedly stole the crucible for reasons unknown. Belimarius has sworn revenge on Hao Jin for this trespass, but the sorceress has ignored the threat, focusing instead on recovering the Rune-Crossed Crucible and bringing Aslynn to justice.

The necromancer Geb has also sent ambassadors to the city of Goka, demanding either the return of cities that Hao Jin placed within her tapestry or equal favors from the sorceress in compensation for the loss. Even more so than Belimarius, this has left Hao Jin with a heavy ethical conundrum—she knows she does indeed owe the nation of Geb a debt, and that reneging on it due to her opinions of its undead leader would be an act of convenient moral cowardice. At the same time, if there is any magician who has left more of a scar on the world than Hao Jin, it's Geb, through his war with his rival Nex. With rumors of Nex's potential return and Geb's obvious preparations to resume the war, Hao Jin wonders whether she would be returning the sites only to see them destroyed, or worse yet, if Geb might use them to inflict some new horror. Pressure from the aeons of Axis, who seek the return of the lost sites regardless of the moral consequences, has only further burdened her conscience.

In addition to recovering historic sites, Hao Jin seeks to act as a shepherd to those communities she took into her tapestry, which have now been restored to a world that moved on without them. Her return to Golarion involved her ushering Round Mountain, a massive sphere of the Sekamina layer of the Darklands, from the Hao Jin Tapestry to its rightful place. This saved the occupants of the Hao Jin Tapestry from certain doom, but in the process, Hao Jin destroyed the ysoki settlement of Broken Ticker—though the citizens were fortunately evacuated beforehand. The residents of Broken Ticker and many of those returned with Round Mountain have since banded together to construct a new settlement called Second Ticker. Despite the ingenuity of its people, Second Ticker's trading routes and much of their supplies were devastated by Round Mountain's landing, and the residents now look to the Ruby Phoenix for help. Hao Jin seeks a council of seasoned individuals willing to act as her agents in Second Ticker, as she worries her legend would intimidate the vulnerable peoples from pushing back against any of her decisions.

The most dangerous consequence of the Ruby Phoenix's return may be her effect on her homeland. During Hao Jin's long absence from Golarion, the empire of Imperial Lung Wa shattered into sixteen Successor States, each vying for control of the others' territory. Upon visiting her home of Goka after satisfying her obligations to the Pathfinder Society, news of Hao Jin's rebirth exploded a sense of national fervor in the city-state, inciting unrest among the Successor State governments, who see her return as an endorsement of Goka and a threat to their own sovereignty. As armies gather and assassins seek to claim her life, Hao Jin gathers agents who can help her avert both her own murder and a looming potential war.

# TREASURY OF THE RUBY PHOENIX While Hao Jin's Vault has become famous thanks to the Ruby Phoenix Tournament, not all of the sorceress's treasures reside within. The following are some of the items for which Hao Jin has found no rightful owner and might thus grant as a gift.

## PEOPLE OF NOTE Belimarius (page 34), Geb (page 44), Empyreal Lord Korada (_Lost Omens Gods and Magic_ 84), Lissala (_Lost Omens Gods and Magic_ 130), Nex (page 90)

BEHIND THE LEGEND A Tian-Shu woman appearing roughly in her 30s, Hao Jin's shimmering red hair is by far her most striking feature, complemented by her ornate robes and bright crimson tattoos. While history paints Hao Jin as an eclectic collector of history and culture, her exile on Axis has given her time to reflect upon her previous choices. She recognizes the harm she has done to those she wished to preserve and is seeking ways to repair the damage.

she unintentionally inflicted. Hao Jin is asexual, a trait she once thought was caused her untimely death and resurrection and considered to be a driving factor behind her issues connecting with others. As a result, Hao Jin never sought romance prior to leaving Golarion, throwing herself into her work rather than face a persistent

fear that she may be broken and unworthy of love. But centuries of introspection have helped Hao Jin rise above these toxic doubts with reborn confidence in herself and her identity, and she's rumored to have visited several Gokan matchmakers since returning to Golarion.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

# REVISIONIST HISTORY Though Hao Jin's actions are condemned by some, she was also responsible for saving many endangered people and relics from Tian Xia's past, especially those threatened by the expansionist empire of Lung Wa. Hao Jin returned to Golarion over 100 years after Lung Wa collapsed, bringing with her a vast swath of history that had been erased by conquest. Her desire to return these cultural treasures to their rightful peoples has caused many ambassadors to approach the Ruby Phoenix and attempt to lay claim to her artifacts.

CELESTIAL PEACH ITEM 17+ RARE CONSUMABLE DIVINE HEALING MAGICAL NECROMANCY POSITIVE Usage held in one hand; Bulk L Activate ◆ Interact Among Hao Jin's most precious treasures are three living plants, the last surviving celestial peach trees taken from the mountains of Chu Ye. One of the trees grows pearls in place of flowers, but the other two bear fruit that is far more valuable. Eating one of these small red peaches can heal even the most grievous of injuries.

Type rejuvenation; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp You gain the effects of 7th-level *neutralize poison*, *regenerate*, *remove curse*, and *remove disease* spells. The peach has a counteract modifier of +27.

Type life; Level 20; Price 73,000 gp When you place the peach into the mouth of an intact corpse that died within the last year, it casts a 10th-level *raise dead* on the corpse.

MOUNTAIN TO THE SKY ITEM 16 Price 10,000 gp Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk – Activate 1 minute (Interact) This tiny, carved walnut shell contains a sacred mountain within. You can only activate mountain to the sky on an unoccupied patch of earth or soil. When activated, the walnut transforms into an impossibly steep mountain, 5,000 feet tall and 100 feet wide at the base. Climbing the mountain requires 8 hours and a successful DC 35 Athletics check. After activating it, if you climb to the top of the mountain without any assistance from flight or magic, the mountain plane shifts you to Heaven when you reach the summit. You can return the mountain to the sky into the shape of a walnut shell as a 1-minute activity, which has the concentrate and manipulate traits, so long as no living creatures are present on the mountain.

RUBY STRING ITEM 14 RARE CONJURATION CONSUMABLE Price 900 gp Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk — The frayed threads from the rips and tears in Hao Jin's Tapestry still contain traces of the Ruby Phoenix's magic. Hao Jin has collected most of these loose strings, but others occasionally find these potent silk strands in unexpected places. A ruby string can fulfill the cost requirement for an 8th-level create demiplane ritual (Advanced Player's Guide 241). When used in this way, the ruby string negates the need for secondary casters, and you get a success for all secondary checks. Alternatively, you can activate it to create a smaller demiplane without requiring the ritual.

Activate 8 hours (envision, Interact); Effect You spin the thread to form a demiplane with the effects of a successful 8th-level create demiplane, but the space is a single 10-foot cube.

STARSHOT ARROW ITEM 7+ RARE CONJURATION CONSUMABLE MAGICAL Ammunition arrow Activate ◆ Interact The metal of these arrows is said to have come from a star that ventured too close to Golarion and was shot down by a moonlit archer. When you activate and shoot a starshot arrow, you take no range penalties against any target that you can personally detect. There must be a line of effect between you and the target.

Type lesser; Level 7; Price 55 gp The target must be within the maximum range of your weapon.

Type greater; Level 14; Price 800 gp You can fire at any creature you can detect, regardless of range. The arrow travels instantly, hitting your target as soon as you fire the arrow. This is a teleportation effect.