# IRABETH TIRABADE

chosen to take the personas of influential figures of power through shapeshifting, while others have turned to fleshwarping experiments to create more pliable servants, and some pursue secret plots they keep even from each other. Not all veiled masters work together, but they all watch one another, ensuring that their schemes do not threaten to reveal their existence to the world at large. If the plans of an individual veiled master seem doomed to fail in this way, the liability is annihilated. This measure has been enacted twice.

There is a series of four edicts that all alghollthu can recall from within their shared memory. The First Dictum is that life exists to be controlled. The Second Dictum is that to be an alghollthu is to control. The Third Dictum is that alghollthus are eternal as many and one. The Fourth and Final Dictum is that to overreach is to threaten the eternal. It is this last dictum that Olordarea is in danger of breaking; its true identity has been discovered by a gnoll named **Shimon-Je** (NG female gnoll abolitionist), who has thus far evaded capture on multiple counts.

MAKING WAVES An abolitionist gnoll and cleric of Sivanah jailed several times for disrupting Katapesh's slave trade, Shimon-Je has repeatedly escaped permanent incarceration for her efforts. She became a true threat when she accidentally learned of the original Hashim's death, confirming the ruse using a *true seeing* spell. Rumors suggest she has been attempting to make contact with Andira Marusek and her Gray Corsairs of Andoran. Hashim reached out to the interplanar bounty hunter Qiloc (LE female xill ranger) to hunt the gnoll down and has controlled the story outside of Katapesh well enough to convince Wynsal Starborn of Absalom that the gnoll is actually a fugitive slaver. With the Pactbroker's resources allied against her, it seems only a matter of time before Shimon-Je is silenced. For anything else to happen would be catastrophic.

To the rest of the world, Hashim appears to be conducting business as usual, even as he secretly pursues the alghollthu agenda. With the Grey Corsairs engaged in the fight against slavery right on Hashim's doorstep, he has officially requested Wynsal Starborn's help in removing them, yet these requests are seemingly falling on deaf ears, regardless of which trade accords are threatened or brought to bear. Hashim has publicly resigned himself to the Gray Corsairs' attacks but has begun to privately—and deniably—funnel more than a few potent weapons to Andira's rival, Queen Abrogail Thrune II of Cheliax.

Word of Nex's potential return has led Hashim to contact High King Anong Arunak of Dongun Hold, requesting a trade agreement for firearms. If the war between Geb and Nex spreads to other nations, firearms will be crucial for defense. And should Geb and Nex destroy each other, there will be two countries directly south of Katapesh ripe for the taking. Hashim also keeps an eye on Kassi Aziril, to whom he granted a secret ingredient to bolster her medical advances; while he has so far passively supported her to encourage the spread of Rahadoum's anti-theistic beliefs, he expects to collect on that debt when it would be most useful.

Hashim has also used his influence over the city to lay the lines of a mental focus known as a telepathic mesh repeater under the streets of Katapesh and begin a secret coup against the Pactmasters. Once it is active, the range of his mental domination would increase exponentially; he could solidify his rule of the region and potentially reach his mind beyond worlds.

By any method or means, it's time to make his move.

## PEOPLE OF NOTE Abrogail Thrune II (page 8), Andira Marusek (page 12), Anong Arunak (page 14), Geb (page 44), Kassi Aziril (page 70), Nex (page 90), Thulgroon (LE veiled master seeker of divinity), Uruluura (LE veiled master fleshwarper), Wynsal Starborn (page 118), Vuildoroc (LE veiled master instructor)

Inestimable Kassi, It has been too long since you graced fair Katapesh with your presence, and it would do me well to lay eyes on you again. There are many here who could

use treatment, and some eager to listen to your speeches on the Laws of Mortality. You know I find those ideas fascinating, even though others do not seem to favor them much. I would love to discuss them together, you and I. You are an incredible person; do not lose sight of that–and do not forget your friend, who have stood with you from the beginning.

use treatment, and some eager to listen to your speeches on the Laws of Mortality. You know I find those ideas fascinating, even though others do not seem to favor them much. I would love to discuss them together, you and I. You are an incredible person; do not lose sight of that—and do not forget your friend, who have stood with you from the beginning. –Pactbroker Hashim ibn Sayyid

# FAMILIAR FACES Irabeth and Anevia Tirabade served as soldiers of the Fifth Crusade in the events of Wrath of the Righteous Adventure Path. Standing alongside the mythical heroes who slew the demon lord Deskari and closed the Worldwound–as played by the PCs–*Legends* assumes these stalwart companions saw their cause triumph and their war end before retiring to what was meant to be a peaceful life on Irabeth's family farm.

# Irabeth Tirabade ## RENOWNED HEROINE OF THE WORLDWOUND LG FEMALE HALF-ORC PALADIN One of the greatest heroes of the Fifth Mendevian Crusade is the half-orc Irabeth Tirabade, paladin of Iomedae, former knight of the Eagle Watch, and onetime ruler of Drezen. After a storied career in the final crusade of Queen **Galfrey** (LG female herald of Iomedae) to close the Worldwound, Irabeth retired with her wife **Anevia Tirabade** (NG female human rogue) to rural Mendev, where they rebuilt a modest home on her parents' old farmstead a few days' ride east of Kenabres. There, life had been comfortable—but Irabeth remained plagued by a nagging guilt that she had abdicated her duty and now works actively for the benefit of the people trying to reclaim the demon-scarred north.

# BORN OF TWO WORLDS Irabeth Tirabade was born to loving, affectionate, and protective parents who instilled a strong sense of self-worth in their daughter from a young age, as they knew that a half-orc child would face more than her share of headwinds in life. Retired crusaders themselves, they also passed their faith in Iomedae down to their daughter. Thus was Irabeth's life shaped by two strong forces: a fierce sense of self-respect and a deep, reverent righteousness.

Irabeth spent her early life trying to find her place in the world. She went first to Lastwall, but the Lastwall's knights' long and bitter wars against the orcs of Belkzen fostered an abiding antipathy toward anyone of orcish descent. As a result, Irabeth found neither friendship nor professional advancement, purely due to her parentage, and she left disheartened. This youthful disillusion was traumatic and lasting: even today, with Lastwall fractured and desperate after the Whispering Tyrant's rise and more sympathetic leaders such as Kalabrynne Iomedar heading day-to- day operations, Irabeth hesitates to return to them. There are other causes and needs in the world that call out for Irabeth's heroism.

After leaving Lastwall, Irabeth journeyed to the River Kingdoms, where she spent several years righting small wrongs and bringing bandits and scoundrels to justice. To this day, Irabeth is fondly remembered by those she helped find a modicum of justice in a rough-and-tumble land. Some of her old comrades continue to operate as bounty hunters and magistrates across the River Kingdoms.

**LOVE AND LOSS** While working in the River Kingdoms, Irabeth met Anevia, her future wife. Raised as a man, Anevia had been living as a woman for years. The two journeyed to Kenabres together. Upon arrival, Irabeth learned that her parents had come out of retirement to re-join the Mendevian Crusade, and that both of them had died in the notorious Eagle Rock massacre.

The loss nearly unmoored her, and only Anevia's love kept Irabeth grounded. In gratitude, when she'd overcome her grief, Irabeth proposed to her lover and presented Anevia with an elixir that would change her physical form to match her identity. Irabeth never told Anevia that she'd sold her father's sword to fund the transformation, but this secret eventually came out when the sword was recovered from the evil cultists that had bought it from an unscrupulous merchant without Irabeth's knowledge.

Although this outcome was unforeseeable, it briefly cast a pall over their joy, as Anevia wrestled with feelings of unexpected guilt that Irabeth had let her father's sword slip away to secure her happiness. However, after its recovery, the sword