# IRAHAI

# A CHANGING GOVERNMENT Irahai was quick to establish the Mendevian Delegation, a group of officials that represent the interests of Mendev's citizens who help establish, enact, and enforce new laws and regulations. With the delegation in place, Irahai's next goal is to assemble the Sarkorian Council, a group of clan leaders that advise in matters affecting the people of Sarkoris.

IRAHAl

# CHANCELLOR OF MENDEV NG FEMALE HUMAN POLITICIAN Born to Thuvian crusaders who answered the call to combat the Worldwound, Chancellor Irahai has deep roots in Mendev and personal ties to the region's tumultuous, demon-scarred recent history. Although her parents were determined to keep Irahai from joining the front lines, she knew from childhood that she wanted to contribute to the war effort. Having grown up among soldiers, Irahai learned the crucial importance of sound logistics from a young age and became a highly capable administrator. When the Worldwound was finally closed, Irahai was the obvious choice to take over Mendev's provisional government: Queen Galfrey (LG female herald of Iomedae) named Irahai chancellor before ascending, leaving the transition to a civilian structure in Irahai's hands.

Chancellor Irahai's personal background has given her an abiding respect for the courage and sacrifices of the crusade. She views rebuilding Mendev's strength as crucial to honor the crusade's work, and she is determined to uphold her duties with integrity. Her experience with demonic schemes has proven invaluable in achieving this goal, for she has recognized and countered several subtle, fiend-driven plots to corrupt the budding civilian nation.

Additionally, many of the contacts Irahai developed during her work with the crusaders have proved useful in her new role as head of the provisional government. Among the chancellor's many friends and former comrades is the renowned Irabeth Tirabade, famous for helping close the Worldwound. Chancellor Irahai greatly respects the crusader's heroism and is keenly aware of the potential political value of Irabeth's return to the Sarkoris Scar for the effort to reclaim Sarkoris from the remaining demon armies. Although Irahai strives not to meddle in Irabeth's decisions, she does continually calculate their effect on her plans.

The alchemist Artokus Kirran is another of Irahai's correspondents. After Mendev twice won the bidding for the sun orchid elixir to rejuvenate Queen Galfrey—a project that Irahai handled personally—the chancellor sent a letter of thanks to the famous recluse. Somewhat to Irahai's surprise, the alchemist responded, and the two began a regular exchange of letters. She enjoys his letters not only for their practicality and insight, but because they often help her understand curious phenomena discovered in the Sarkoris Scar; Kirran's personal musings also grant Irahai a window into the Thuvian homeland she never knew.

Most of the chancellor's attention, however, is focused closer to home. Much of Mendev's wealth was held in trust by crusader lords, and one of Irahai's biggest and most vexing tasks is the reapportionment of those interests to their rightful, indigenous owners. However, after so much time and tumult, identifying the proper heirs is difficult, particularly given the lack of surviving written records, inheritors' intermarriage with crusaders, the disqualifying effect of demonic corruptions, and conflicts between Mendevian and Sarkorian rules of inheritance.

# SINS OF THE PAST Irahai's unfamiliarity with a scattered and reforged Sarkorian culture has exacerbated her problems. Despite good intentions, the chancellor has occasionally relied on untrustworthy intermediaries. In some cases, she has also been blind to the nuances of ancient, complicated grievances between rival clans—many of whom share common ancestors, and thus have competing claims to the same holdings. Early missteps, alongside the misdeeds of the Mendevian crusaders, have cost her credibility. Though she would dearly like to find someone patient and impartial to help her avoid further errors and make amends for past ones, Chancellor Irahai still lacks a reliable guide through the thickets of interclan disagreement.

The most grievous of her errors on this front was trusting the Sarkorian shaman **Lokhallat the Wanderer** (NE male human shaman), who advanced

several misleading claims on ancestral hunting grounds and Sarkorian valuables. Seeking a reliable consultant on Sarkorian issues, Irahai was deceived by a number of testimonials from other Sarkorians, who unfortunately turned out to be accomplices or fellow victims. Lokhallat's frauds were all built on kernels of truth, and by the time the crusader government disentangled the real merits of his claims, the Wanderer had sold some of his ill-gotten gains and disappeared into the wilderness with the rest of his treasures. In his wake, the frustrated Irahai has accepted the aid of several Uzunjati envoys sent by the Magaambyan Janatimo to better vet further Sarkorian claims and establish rapport with clan leaders, though she considers this another failing on her part and has yet to decide if she can trust the storytellers any more than Lokhallat.

The chancellor's interest in apprehending Lokhallat the Wanderer is well known and has led to many false sightings. Some of these were genuine mistakes, others have been used strategically by frustrated citizens to draw the thin-stretched government's attention to problems it had been trying to ignore, and still others have been outlaws' ruses to distract investigators from their schemes. These false reports have only hardened Irahai's resolve to catch Lokhallat and put an end to the distractions.

The stakes of these decisions are high, not only for Chancellor Irahai's credibility with the Sarkorians, but because crusader holdings represent the vast majority of Mendev's surviving wealth. Mendev lacks basic infrastructure, and most of what exists was built to serve the crusaders' military objectives rather than the civilian populace. Much of its need could be addressed with sufficient resources, but Mendev is a poor nation, especially now that the crusaders have largely dispersed, along with the political and material support that southern nations once sent them. Chancellor Irahai simply does not have enough money to do all that must be done, and the financial pressure exacerbates all the others she faces. Mendev's poverty, and what it means for the government and the people it must protect, keeps her awake at night.

One possible solution has recently appeared from the cold and enigmatic Lake of Mists and Veils. Chunks of treasure have begun to mysteriously wash up on the lake's shores, spurring conflicts between unscrupulous former crusaders, ordinary citizens, Sarkorian reclaimers, and the bankrupt government. Foreign agents, including servants of the Numerian conspiracy known as the Blue Streaks, have also taken to plundering the shoreline and escaping Mendev without notice. Yet those who attempt to pursue the treasure into the lake usually vanish without a trace, leaving many households impoverished and bereft even among untold piles of riches. Some say that these prizes are actually the royal treasures of the vanished House Rogarvia of Brevoy, a rumor that has added even more complications to an already-fraught situation.

A portion of this treasure has found its way into the hands of **Akkhara Snarltongue** (LE female halfling knight), a corrupt crusader whose band of cruel mercenaries has become a plague on the lake folk now that they're no longer drawing a living from the Mendevian crusade. Akkhara and her mercenaries are no better than bandits, but their years of demon-fighting have honed the company into a fiercer adversary than most local militias are capable of facing. Irahai would dearly love to bring the ex-crusaders to justice, ending this persistent headache and stain on Mendev's reputation.

Finally, Numeria presents a puzzle of sorts for Irahai to solve. Shortly after the chancellor took control of the provisional government, the Numerian barbarian lord Kevoth-Kul sent a messenger bearing the gift of a sword forged from a strange new skymetal alloy called sovereign steel. No message accompanied the gift, and no one is certain what Kevoth-Kul meant by it. Although the chancellor has tried, discreetly, to probe for some explanation via diplomatic channels, these efforts have, perhaps unsurprisingly, received no answer.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Artokus Kirran (page 18), Choral the Conqueror (page 40), Iomedae (Lost Omens Gods and Magic 28), Irabeth Tirabade (page 52), Janatimo (page 60), Kevoth-Kul (page 74), Khismar Crookchar (page 78)

# THE SOVEREIGN BLADE Kevoth-Kul's gift, which has been given the name Sovereign Blade, vexes Irahai and her advisors. Beyond the fact that the blade is made from a skymetal alloy, its properties remain a mystery. Magical attempts to identify the blade produce varying results. At times, the blade seems capable of channeling electricity, while other times it instead burns like a flame. To the best of the Mendevian mages' understanding, the blade's properties change with every attempt to identify them. There is some consistency in the observations, however. Striking the blade always causes it to hum with a pleasant tone for several seconds, reminiscent of a tuning fork. Additionally, every person to study the blade notes a single ability that is always present across their unique identifications. Irahai's personal diviner, for example, always identifies the blade's ability to banish conjured creatures, but its other properties always vary.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX