# JAKALYN

several misleading claims on ancestral hunting grounds and Sarkorian valuables. Seeking a reliable consultant on Sarkorian issues, Irahai was deceived by a number of testimonials from other Sarkorians, who unfortunately turned out to be accomplices or fellow victims. Lokhallat's frauds were all built on kernels of truth, and by the time the crusader government disentangled the real merits of his claims, the Wanderer had sold some of his ill-gotten gains and disappeared into the wilderness with the rest of his treasures. In his wake, the frustrated Irahai has accepted the aid of several Uzunjati envoys sent by the Magaambyan Janatimo to better vet further Sarkorian claims and establish rapport with clan leaders, though she considers this another failing on her part and has yet to decide if she can trust the storytellers any more than Lokhallat.

The chancellor's interest in apprehending Lokhallat the Wanderer is well known and has led to many false sightings. Some of these were genuine mistakes, others have been used strategically by frustrated citizens to draw the thin-stretched government's attention to problems it had been trying to ignore, and still others have been outlaws' ruses to distract investigators from their schemes. These false reports have only hardened Irahai's resolve to catch Lokhallat and put an end to the distractions.

The stakes of these decisions are high, not only for Chancellor Irahai's credibility with the Sarkorians, but because crusader holdings represent the vast majority of Mendev's surviving wealth. Mendev lacks basic infrastructure, and most of what exists was built to serve the crusaders' military objectives rather than the civilian populace. Much of its need could be addressed with sufficient resources, but Mendev is a poor nation, especially now that the crusaders have largely dispersed, along with the political and material support that southern nations once sent them. Chancellor Irahai simply does not have enough money to do all that must be done, and the financial pressure exacerbates all the others she faces. Mendev's poverty, and what it means for the government and the people it must protect, keeps her awake at night.

One possible solution has recently appeared from the cold and enigmatic Lake of Mists and Veils. Chunks of treasure have begun to mysteriously wash up on the lake's shores, spurring conflicts between unscrupulous former crusaders, ordinary citizens, Sarkorian reclaimers, and the bankrupt government. Foreign agents, including servants of the Numerian conspiracy known as the Blue Streaks, have also taken to plundering the shoreline and escaping Mendev without notice. Yet those who attempt to pursue the treasure into the lake usually vanish without a trace, leaving many households impoverished and bereft even among untold piles of riches. Some say that these prizes are actually the royal treasures of the vanished House Rogarvia of Brevoy, a rumor that has added even more complications to an already-fraught situation.

A portion of this treasure has found its way into the hands of **Akkhara Snarltongue** (LE female halfling knight), a corrupt crusader whose band of cruel mercenaries has become a plague on the lake folk now that they're no longer drawing a living from the Mendevian crusade. Akkhara and her mercenaries are no better than bandits, but their years of demon-fighting have honed the company into a fiercer adversary than most local militias are capable of facing. Irahai would dearly love to bring the ex-crusaders to justice, ending this persistent headache and stain on Mendev's reputation.

Finally, Numeria presents a puzzle of sorts for Irahai to solve. Shortly after the chancellor took control of the provisional government, the Numerian barbarian lord Kevoth-Kul sent a messenger bearing the gift of a sword forged from a strange new skymetal alloy called sovereign steel. No message accompanied the gift, and no one is certain what Kevoth-Kul meant by it. Although the chancellor has tried, discreetly, to probe for some explanation via diplomatic channels, these efforts have, perhaps unsurprisingly, received no answer.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Artokus Kirran (page 18), Choral the Conqueror (page 40), Iomedae (Lost Omens Gods and Magic 28), Irabeth Tirabade (page 52), Janatimo (page 60), Kevoth-Kul (page 74), Khismar Crookchar (page 78)

# THE SOVEREIGN BLADE Kevoth-Kul's gift, which has been given the name Sovereign Blade, vexes Irahai and her advisors. Beyond the fact that the blade is made from a skymetal alloy, its properties remain a mystery. Magical attempts to identify the blade produce varying results. At times, the blade seems capable of channeling electricity, while other times it instead burns like a flame. To the best of the Mendevian mages' understanding, the blade's properties change with every attempt to identify them. There is some consistency in the observations, however. Striking the blade always causes it to hum with a pleasant tone for several seconds, reminiscent of a tuning fork. Additionally, every person to study the blade notes a single ability that is always present across their unique identifications. Irahai's personal diviner, for example, always identifies the blade's ability to banish conjured creatures, but its other properties always vary.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

# MURDEROUS VAINGLORY Like no Blood Mistress before her, Jakalyn maintains an unorthodox public persona. She eschews the mantis mask and makes no attempt to hide her hand in worldly affairs. Many Vernai have shown concern at Jakalyn's overtness, worrying that she plans to claim sole rulership of the Red Mantis, but in the span of her rule she's made no noticeable moves toward such a goal.

# JAKALYN ## BLOOD MISTRESS OF THE RED MANTIS LE FEMALE HUMAN RED MANTIS ASSASSIN From the spires of the Crimson Citadel, deep in the mountainous jungles of Mediogalti Island, the mysterious leaders of the Red Mantis assassins look down upon the world. Known collectively as the Vernai, these powerful assassins number in the dozens, with each having their own specialties and regions of influence throughout Golarion. Yet even the Vernai have a leader, a deadly honor that can be held only by a woman who has earned the respect and support of at least two-thirds of the Vernai and speaks the will of Achaekek himself: the blood mistress.

While her exact age is unknown, Blood Mistress Jakalyn has ruled the Vernai for well over a century. Records of her life before she became the blood mistress, as well as records of the one she replaced, have proven all but impossible to track down, and those who have made it their mission to do so have invariably become the targets of assassinations themselves. The same fate has fallen upon those who sought to keep oral histories of the previous ruler. That the blood mistresses have traditionally lived secretive lives has only made the mystery easier for Jakalyn to maintain.

Blood Mistress Jakalyn's prices for assassinations vary widely—she's been known to accept contracts for as little as a handful of copper coins, or to demand outrageous payments in excess of a hundred thousand gold. Scholars and politicians are aware of a few deaths that she has personally admitted to orchestrating, but beyond this, her murderous conquests are the subject of rumor. These range from the old and outlandish, such as supposed assassination of the god Aroden, to the recent and plausible, such as the "perished under mysterious circumstances" Lord-Mayor Haldmeer Grobaras of Magnimar. Jakalyn is content to let these rumors propagate and spread; even total fabrications can only enhance her reputation.

Jakalyn appears as a young woman with features that suggest a mix of Tian, Nidalese, and Taldan ancestry, only adding further complications to the attempts of curious researchers eager to learn more of her time before the Red Mantis. The streak of red in her hair is meant to honor the sanguine hues of her murderous deity as much as the blood of her many victims. The source of her apparent youth is, like her deep history, an enigma. No records of the Red Mantis securing doses of the sun orchid elixir exist, for instance, nor is there any evidence of rituals performed to endow her with eternal life. Jakalyn herself often claims that the deaths of those she's slain keep her young, yet she's never revealed proof of this claim, and no other Red Mantis assassin has ever used such a technique. Jakalyn, of course, cares little if others believe her or not. picture: Partial view of a dark, abstract, organic shape with a red and yellow edge in the lower left corner.

# BUSINESS BEFORE PLEASURE Blood Mistress Jakalyn only rarely leaves the Crimson Citadel for non-assassination purposes, preferring those who seek her aid to make the journey to Mediogalti Isle, navigate the deadly bureaucracy of her underlings to secure an appointment with her, and then survive the grueling overland journey to the Crimson Citadel itself. Even then, she may not deign to meet with the supplicant, or might finally meet with them only to turn down their request for murder on the spot. Stories of her slaughtering those who she deems to have wasted her time further help to limit those who personally seek the blood mistress.

Jakalyn does make exceptions. A recent and notable one was her visit to Cheliax to meet with none other than Queen Abrogail Thrune, who invited Jakalyn to the capital city of Egorian. The queen would have preferred the meeting to be kept secret and private, but Jakalyn refused financial remuneration, demanding only a promise from Abrogail to not interfere with how Jakalyn carries out her work. Soon thereafter, Jakalyn made public her charter from Queen Abrogail, announcing that she had been hired to orchestrate assassinations outside of normal Chelaxian

political channels, particularly against mercenary companies Order of the Scourge. Abrogail was furious but could do association with the blood mistress. The agreement is still you no assassinations have provably taken place, but the word itself has been enough to curtail the Scourge's investigations into Abrogail. Whether or not Jakalyn intends to follow through on the task or not, public knowledge of her involvement may have been enough to solve Queen Abrogail's problem without a drop of blood shed—though she may one day regret the price she paid for it.

This was not the first time the two women's paths have crossed. Several months ago, the queen tried to hire a lower-ranking member of the Vernai to assassinate the Rahadoumi healer Kassi Aziril, only to be shocked when Jakalyn intervened and voided the contract. The Blood Mistress explained to Abrogail that Kassi had already been targeted by the assassins years before on false pretenses. Misinformation had made it appear that Kassi had resurrected an earlier victim of the Red Mantis using an obscure occult ritual. However, Jakalyn learned that the victim had not perished; the assassin who had been sent on that job botched the murder and left the target unconscious but alive. Kassi's ministrations only saved the target from death rather than restoring them from death. As recompense, Jakalyn granted Kassi immunity to further Red Mantis assassinations as a show of good will. Abrogail did not let this setback delay her for long, ordering Kassi excruciated should the doctor ever set foot in Cheliax-controlled territory.

Blood Mistress Jakalyn has learned that not all problems facing the Red Mantis can be solved by the threat of assassination, particularly when she or her agents are vexed by those they can't move against, such as rightful monarchs or rulers of nations. Her preferred method of action against such foes is to enjoin the services of adventurers, but she makes these offers only to groups who are already opposed to her intended target. In this way, she's found that it takes very little to push a group into doing her bidding, even in cases where the group itself would rather fight her instead. While payments of gold and magic are the typical rewards she offers for such missions, Jakalyn has been known to offer assassination services to those who please her. If murder's not to their liking, she can even offer adventurers clemencies—promises that no Red Mantis assassin will take a contract against a target or targets of the adventurers' choosing. These clemencies are almost always temporary injunctions, and in cases where Jakalyn secretly knows a target will be placed on the list soon, she arranges the length of these clemencies to her advantage. For those outside the Red Mantis's inner circle, Jakalyn has also been known to offer access to secret trainings or techniques normally reserved for the assassins themselves.

# SECRETS OF THE VERNAI The Red Mantis Assassin archetype appears on page 71 of the *Lost Omens World Guide*. Of the additional options below, only Prayer Attack is available freely to Red Mantis assassins without prior permission from the Blood Mistress. Those who dare learn these rare abilities without her permission run the risk of being cast out of the society and hunted down by their former allies. In theory, a daring infiltration of the Crimson Citadel could allow one to study hidden texts and learn these techniques, but the chambers within and below this fortress are among the most dangerous in the region, so such an attempt should not be made lightly!

PEOPLE OF NOTE Abrogail Thrune II (page 8), Achaekek (*Lost Omens Gods and Magic* 52), Kassi Aziril (page 70), Razmir (page 92), Tar-Baphon (page 104), Toulon Vidoc (page 112)

# A MODEST PROPOSAL An unnamed messenger representing a mysterious patron recently approached Jakalyn with an outlandish and shocking request–the assassination of none other than Tar-Baphon, the Whispering Tyrant. The messenger claimed that Tar-Baphon was no legitimate ruler, and argued that the Tyrant was a power-hungry fool attempting to become a god, a clear offense to Achaekek and the Red Mantis. When Jakalyn grew frustrated at the patron's attempts to remain anonymous, she had the messenger imprisoned and announced the request and incarceration publicly. After months went by with no one stepping forward to admit their association with the imprisoned messenger, Jakalyn discovered through her own investigation that the messenger hailed from Razmiran. Whispers that Jakalyn may be considering a retaliatory assassination against Razmir himself have begun to spread, as have rumors that she's still considering taking the contract on Tar-Baphon. Both Razmir and Tar-Baphon's power are great enough to combat most threats, but the attention of one of the world's most dangerous killers is something that neither lich nor "god" would be wise to ignore.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

# JAKALYN'S MURDERS These are but three significant assassinations Jakalyn has admitted to performing herself.

4620 AR—Halamendi Orrus: The first customer of Alkenstar's gunworks didn't made it out of the city before he was cut down. *Contessa's Sting*, the prototype magical firearm he'd purchased, was never recovered.

4668 AR—Irlyna Vosh: Many consider the assassination of this beloved Galtan artist as one of the flash points to have triggered the Red Revolution.

4700 AR—Professor Chondru Makka: The assassination of this polarizing professor and the disappearance of his brightest student on the eve of their major demonstration of recovered Shory magic sent ripples of shock and paranoia through the Magaambya's faculty.

ACHAEKEK'S GRIP FEAT 8 RARE ARCHETYPE Prerequisites Basic Red Mantis Magic You sense if a creature you have slain in the last year has been restored to life, as long as you and that creature are on the same plane. You also gain the Achaekek's clutch focus spell. If you don't already have one, you gain a focus pool of 1 Focus Point, which you can Refocus by praying to Achaekek or researching your assigned kill.

FADING ![inline icon: circular arrow] FEAT 10 RARE ARCHETYPE TELEPORTATION Frequency once per Crimson Shroud Trigger You are targeted with a Strike by someone you can detect while your Crimson Shroud is active.

**Prerequisites** Crimson Shroud You fade partially from reality. The attacker must attempt a DC 11 flat check; on a failure, the attack passes harmlessly through the image of your body that remains behind. An instant later you return to reality, and your Crimson Shroud ends.

PRAYER ATTACK ◆ FEAT 14 ARCHETYPE CONCENTRATE Prerequisites Red Mantis Assassin Dedication Requirements You are wielding a sawtooth saber in each hand. You've mastered the signature assassination style of the Red Mantis. Attempt to Feint an enemy within 30 feet. If your Feint is successful, when you use Prayer Attack on subsequent turns you automatically make the target flat-footed against your melee attacks for that turn without rolling a check to Feint, so as long as you remain visible to the target and the target remains within 30 feet of you. If you use your Prayer Attack against a different target, you must attempt to Feint the target normally.

When you use Prayer Attack, your next successful Strike with a sawtooth saber that turn deals 2d6 persistent bleed damage to the target.

VERNAI TRAINING FEAT 12 RARE ARCHETYPE Prerequisites Achakeek's Grip, Advanced Red Mantis Magic To resurrect a creature you've slain, a spellcaster must counteract your influence on its death. The DC of this check is equal to your class DC or spell DC, whichever is higher. In addition, add two 5th-level spells to your Red Mantis assassin spellbook—both spells must be chosen from the following options: death ward, drop dead, false vision, hallucination, illusory scene, mind probe, or sending. You gain a 5th-level spell slot that you can use to prepare a spell from your Red Mantis assassin spellbook.

Red Mantis Assassin Focus Spell ACHAEKEK'S CLUTCH RARE CURSE DEATH NECROMANCY Cast somatic, verbal Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature Saving Throw Will You mark the holy symbol of Achaekek in a visible location on the target's body.

Critical Success The target is unaffected. Success The target is marked by Achaekek's symbol. For 1 minute, the first time per round that the target gains persistent bleed damage, they immediately take that amount of slashing damage as the mantis claws grow off the symbol and rake them. Failure As success, but the curse has an unlimited duration.

**Critical Failure** As failure, but the DC on the target's flat check to remove persistent bleed damage increases to 20 (15 with particularly effective assistance).