# JANATIMO

UZUNJATI The Uzunjati are those among the Magaambya who learn and speak tales, from and to all peoples we encounter. Though our stories are a quieter magic than the strength of the trees or wrath of the storms, they have the power to teach, to shape our view of the world, and to keep us alive when all else has failed us.

# JANATIMO SPEAKER OF THE WORLD'S TALES CG MALE HALF-ELF BARD My tale is intertwined with millions of othe spiders' web is built, but I shall do what I ca of the Uzunjati, the Learned One of the Mag Tales, and I remember everything. Being bo of the Magaambya, my destiny was alway being born with the gift of perfect recollect a normal childhood. I was tutored from infa archive for as much knowledge as possible.

My tale is intertwined with millions of others, like the first strand atop which a spiders' web is built, but I shall do what I can to recount it. I am Janatimo, head of the Uzunjati, the Learned One of the Magaambya, Speaker of All the World's Tales, and I remember everything. Being born from the union of two scholars of the Magaambya, my destiny was always to follow in their footsteps, but being born with the gift of perfect recollection meant that I would never know a normal childhood. I was tutored from infancy so that I might serve as a living archive for as much knowledge as possible.

The role I fill within the Magaambya now is quite unique. I am a teacher of our collected knowledge, but I also serve as a guide for how best to wield newfound understandings from the stories I tell. I give students lessons on magic in the form of tales of humility. I teach them history by speaking of long dead heroes from ages past. My lessons are those of context and perspective, not simply cold facts. To recite a tale is to offer all the truths contained within, not simply those that I see or choose to acknowledge.

My purpose, and by extension the purpose of the Uzunjati, is to preserve stories. Stories provide context for our histories so that we are not just beholden to our past, but that we might learn from our memories. From the folklore of the long dead to the bedtime stories told by a loving father so that his child might grow up to be kind and wise, every tale is precious. Bitter enemies can become treasured friends with the right story of compassion and forgiveness to bridge the gap. Stories are the lifeblood that flows through our world. Each and every tale has a lesson to be learned, a warning to be heeded, something of value to be gained for all those that choose to perk their ears and listen. To forget a story and all of the gifts it bears is a tragedy, like forgetting the face of a once-cherished lover.

To that end, I have brought the Uzunjati to Avistan. We cannot simply sit by in our libraries, hoarding our knowledge and only sharing it with those who seek us out. There are magics stirring in Avistan the likes of which have not been seen since the time of Old- Mage Jatembe himself. The people of Thassilon once again walk among the living, long after most of the waking world forgot them; their stories must be recovered and recounted so that they are not forgotten again. And who else better suited to ease them peacefully into their current circumstances than those that can recount all their lost years for them? The Whispering Tyrant's attempt to ascend to godhood has meant the loss of thousands, which is unthinkable from a moral perspective alone, but also consider the potential loss of generations of knowledge along with them. This atrocity has convinced even the most conservative among my order to agree that we must act. None are more suited to understand and help deal with such magical threats as the Magaambya. It is our duty as scholars, teachers, and storytellers to put our knowledge to the protection and betterment of the world we all share.

# TALES OF THE NORTH Magaambya was originally founded so that Old-Mage Jatembe's teachings of magic could be spread to all that wished to learn them. While this is still a noble goal and one I personally take great pride in pursuing, there is so much more for us to do in Avistan. After all my studies of the Old-Mage's works, I've come to see magic as a living thing; if not used, it stagnates and withers within us.

When used for ill, the intentions of the user corrupt it. To preserve magic, we must not just practice it, but use it for good.

I feel a great deal of kinship toward Kalabrynne Iomedar and her child, Clarethe. These two Knights of Lastwall seek the ultimate defeat of Tar-Baphon, while I prioritize using the knowledge my people have accumulated to rehabilitate and right the Gravelands that he created. To start a revitalization effort in the Gravelands, the sources of its corruption must be rooted out and contained. My researchers believe that these sources are ancient, tainted artifacts that, if removed or destroyed, would end large portions of the corruption that the land suffers. Above all, we in the Magaambya believe we have a duty to the people of this world, and that the burden falls upon us to protect those who can't protect themselves. For their efforts, I have nothing but respect and admiration for all the Knights of Lastwall and those who have rallied to their banner.

I also have a particular interest in Sorshen's story. Once a terrible force for evil, she has renounced her title as runelord and has the potential to be a great asset to the people of Avistan. I can think of none better suited to help us restore the Gravelands than a reformed runelord, if we could persuade her to share her knowledge of magic with the Magaambya. Hers could be a tale of redemption I tell for generations to come.

I sent Uzunjati out to the Sarkoris Scar to help the people that wish to resettle, but also to collect their stories. The survivors of that murdered nation scattered across the world and are now returning, bearing tales of their ancestors before, their exodus now, and their hopes for the future. Efforts to rebuild are proving dangerous, however, as demons left over from the war still wander the Scar's twisted landscape. All efforts to reclaim what was lost there will be for nothing if the native Sarkorians are not saved from the constant threat of demonic raids.

There is always more work to be done in Avistan—more stories to be gathered, more people to help. This is a land of many dangers, and our presence here is not always seen as the gesture of goodwill I intend.

# JANATIMO'S SECRET LESSONS As a storyteller, Janatimo loves sharing his knowledge with others and helping expand their worldviews, so most of his innovations have passed on to the Uzunjati or the world at large. But there are a few small things he keeps to himself and his closest friends and students, among those a special Uzunjati storytelling technique that could be used to harm the innocent if it fell into the wrong hands.

JANATIMO'S LESSONS FEAT 12 RARE ARCHETYPE Prerequisites Uzunjati Recollection (Lost Omens Character Guide 103) Thanks to Janatimo's secret techniques, you can weave your knowledge and words into powerful tools to assist your allies in life-threatening situations. When you use Uzunjati Recollection to tell a story and Recall Knowledge about a creature during a combat encounter, if you succeed at both checks, your story carries deeper meaning. This grants your allies a +1 circumstance bonus to their next attack roll and saving throw against the creature during that encounter, as well as to their AC against that creature's next attack roll during that encounter. If you critically succeed at both checks, the bonuses also apply to all attack rolls, saves, and AC against that creature for 2 rounds.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Irabeth Tirabade (page 52), Irahai (page 54), Old-Mage Jatembe (page 62), Kalabrynne and Clarethe Iomedar (page 66), Sihar (page 98), Sorshen (page 34), Tar-Baphon (page 104)

TROUBLED PROTÉGÉS Sihar, the leader of the Bright Lions, is an old student of mine. She came to the Magaambya to learn what she could of the gods, so that one day she might use this knowledge to end Walkena's tyrannical reign in Mzali. I armed her with as much knowledge as I could, informing her that some of the bravest of the Emerald Boughs had already chosen to live secretly among the people of Mzali and see what they might learn. Sihar has since told me that a number of these Emerald Boughs have drawn too much attention to themselves. She is unable to do much to aid them, with her Bright Lions being stretched thin as is, but she told me she's willing to assist as much as she can with any efforts to smuggle my people out of the city. The Emerald Boughs are community organizers, not warriors. I fear for them if Walkena's ire falls upon them before they can be rescued.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX