# KALABRYNNE AND CLARETHE IOMEDAR

**WISDOM OF JATEMBE** Though his legacy is so ancient that many view him as a distant and inaccessible figure, Jatembe's notes and knowledge are available to anyone who attends his school. Jatembe left all of his writings behind when he vanished from Golarion, and countless versions of

libraries, each annotated and collated by different practitioners over the centuries. These tomes are collectively known as the *Wisdom of Jatembe*, and they contain spells penned by the Old-Mage himself, alongside the multiple refinements, variants, and related breakthroughs that have since been added by Magaambyan students.

positions of any number of targets with the positions of other targets. Additionally, you can modulate the share of vital essence to share the burden of pain. Distribute the Hit Points of all targets however you choose, except that no target can receive fewer than 1 Hit Point or more than their maximum Hit Points.

HALCYON INFUSION RARE DIVINATION MENTAL Traditions arcane, primal Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal) Range touch; Targets one willing creature of lower level than you Duration until your next daily preparations You infuse magical energy into your target, opening up their mind to the pathways of magic and granting them the ability to use magic to affect the world around them. Choose a 1st-level spell you prepared today or that's in your repertoire, of the same tradition you used to cast halcyon infusion. The spell must be one that has a listed range. If the target is at least 3rd level, you can choose a 2nd-level spell instead of a 1st-level spell; and if the target is at least 5th level, you can choose a 3rd-level spell. The target can Cast the Spell once per day as an innate spell of the tradition you used to cast halcyon infusion. If they are untrained in the appropriate magical tradition, their spell attack bonus is 2 + their level + their highest mental ability modifier, and their spell DC is 12 + their level + their highest mental ability modifier. Unlike most abilities that can only be used once per day, the target refreshes their use of the granted innate spell each day only after you make your daily preparations and choose to extend halcyon infusion's duration by either refraining from preparing a spell in the slot (if you're a prepared spellcaster) or expending another spell slot (if you're a spontaneous spellcaster).

**Heightened (8th)** If the target is at least 7th level, you can choose a 4th-level spell. **Heightened (10th)** As 8th, and if the target is at least 9th level, you can choose a 5th-level spell.

# KNIGHTLY IDOLS While no knight of Lastwall has rank above another, Kalabrynne and Clarethe Iomedar, nicknamed the Lion of Iomedae and the Sunset Angel, respectively, are looked up to by those who serve in the field. Especially among women, the pair have inspired many aspirations toward chivalry and heroism and more than their fair share of amorous crushes—the latter of which is a source of mild embarrassment for both of them.

Kalabrynne and Clarethe Iomedar

### KNIGHTS OF LASTWALL None are called leader among the Knights of Lastwall, for when Vigil fell, they realized that to elect a leader is to show your enemy your greatest weakness. Just look at our foe! When the Whispering Tyrant was sealed within Gallowspire by the Shining Crusade centuries ago, his empire fell to pieces, for it could not survive without his iron grip. Now that Tar-Baphon has escaped and returned to power, all must band together to defeat him—not as servants and masters, but as comrades united with glorious purpose. Yet there are two who stand tall among the knights. I will not call these two our leaders; but they are an inspiration to all those who hold the banner of Lastwall high.

KALABRYNNE IOMEDAR

ADVISOR TO THE KNIGHTS OF LASTWALL LG FEMALE HUMAN PALADIN The elder Iomedar was born among the common folk of Vigil, capital of fallen Lastwall, and had barely seen her fifteenth birthday when her heart called her to join our predecessors, the Knights of Ozem. During this time, she found love with an Iomedaean priestess, Gwyndria Iomedar of Firrine, and when the two were wed Kalabrynne took her wife's name for her own. The two lived in Vigil for over a decade, and in time they were blessed with child; we will come to her soon enough. inline micro-figure: small golden scepter or staff icon at the start of the last line

Alas, Gwyndria was among those tragically lost when the Whispering Tyrant unleashed the Radiant Fire upon Vigil. Kalabrynne survived the cataclysm, however, and though her heart surely ached at the loss, she rallied what survivors she could find and led their retreat to Vellumis. Once the survivors were safe in that port city, Kalabrynne called a meeting of all knights, soldiers, and able-bodied folk present there; in the days that followed, with many an impassioned speech and insightful plea, she organized the ragged survivors of a fallen nation into the proud and courageous Knights of Lastwall. The remains of Gwyndria were never recovered; either Iomeda r would be grateful beyond words for their recovery, for unconsecrated bones in the Gravelands rarely find peace.

Kalabrynne today is all at once wise counselor, inspiring orator, canny tactician, and indefatigable warrior. In speech she is reserved unless the situation demands boldness, and in aspect she is as stately and as beautiful as any late-blooming woman might hope to be. I say "late-blooming," for like me, she was taken for a boy at birth, and raised as such until she had the sense to become her truest self. When I left my birthplace of Absalom as a fresh-faced squire of the knights—and newly minted maiden besides—I hastened first to Vellumis, for all the knights I met spoke of her wisdom and nobility, and to see a late-blooming woman like me held in such honor was like a dream made real.

I learned much in her service of honor, nobility, and chivalry; and much too of tactics and leadership. There I gained the courage and conviction to hold fast against the direst threat. Nor am I or my fellow knights the only visitors Vellumis has received, for Kalabrynne has championed the knights' outreach across the Inner Sea region. Though she refuses to quit the Gravelands,

Kalabrynne hosts the Magaambya wizard Janatimo to this end, for an alliance with his distant school would forward our cause greatly.

Outreach and Alliance Our great crusade will succeed only with the support of many, and so Kalabrynne sends diplomats to every corner of the Inner Sea region. Taldor was among the first nations to receive her envoys, for all Taldans recall the Shining Crusade with pride, and my fellow knights ply the nation's inns and noble salons for new allies. Word has reached me that Kalabrynne now seeks envoys to travel to the court of Grand Princess Eutropia herself; any knights sent hence must be cunning indeed, for the intrigues of nobles cannot be rebuffed by stout shields nor vanquished by force of arms.

Perhaps the most dangerous diplomatic missions, however, are those closest to home. Kalabrynne has sent diplomats to Overlord Ardax of Belkzen, and likewise to General Azaersi of Oprak, and has also made peace with several goblin tribes in the Gravelands. Though these peoples might once have been foes of Lastwall, the Whispering Way is a threat to all life. Human and goblin, hobgoblin and orc; what differences are these when faced with the horror of undeath? But old grudges run deep, and old scars ache long, and Kalabrynne keenly remembers how even loyal knights such as Irabeth Tirabade were treated merely for having an orc as a father. And so only the bravest and most well-spoken knights are sent as envoys to these long-shunned peoples. Kalabrynne is always looking for new candidates for such missions.

On the matter of our fellow knight Ulthun II, the Iomedars are split, although neither would doubt his integrity nor call him unfit to claim the title of knight of Lastwall. In her wisdom, Kalabrynne sees his efforts to direct the vast resources of the Inner Sea region to our cause as a vital necessity, for the machine of war must be oiled with gold. The younger Iomedar, in her customarily outspoken fashion, grumbles about the former watcher-lord's retreat to the distant refuge of Absalom, for in her eyes he has not fulfilled his duty to the ruins of Lastwall.

CLARETHE IOMEDAR

INSPIRING CRIMSON RECLAIMER CG NONBINARY HUMAN LIBERATOR Kalabrynne and Gwyndria had but one child before Lastwall fell. Knowing the struggle of gender wrongly imposed, Kalabrynne saw to it that their child was not raised as a specific gender identity but given the time and space necessary for self-discovery. For her part, Clarethe has made clear that feminine pronouns are most appropriate, yet she is quick to remind the curious or presumptive that she is neither female nor male—and equally quick to punish those who behave in bigoted fashion, for such hatred is as much violence as a sword's stroke.

Of Clarethe's career before the fall, there is little to tell. She joined Lastwall's military as a squire, and in its service traveled the length and breadth of the nation. Even then, she was known as a brash and pugnacious youth, and more than once risked discharge for both her deeds and her outspoken attitude. She was far from Vigil when it fell, and came to Vellumis only after the order had been formed; by all accounts, though, Clarethe took to knighthood with fierce zeal. On one occasion, she rode out at day's end (alone!) to aid a band of knights ambushed on patrol—a deed which earned her the admiring title of "Sunset Angel" from her fellows. Certainly, she has taken to the name, preferring to strike when the setting sun paints the sky scarlet.

## PEOPLE OF NOTE Ardax the White-Hair (page 16), Azaersi (page 26), Beirivelle Starshine (NG female human redeemer of Shelyn), Eutropia (page 42), Iomedae (_Lost Omens Gods and Magic_ 28), Irabeth Tirabade (page 52), Janatimo (page 60), Tar-Baphon (page 104), Ulthun II (page 114), Veldrienne (NG female human knight vigilant)

# A KNIGHT'S TALE *The man hesitated, then drew out a pendant he'd hidden inside the seam of his coat sleeve. He offered it to Veldrienne, who shook her head. "I can't take your money."*

"It isn't money. It's... I was a jeweler. Before all this." He laughed bleakly. "I thought I'd use some of my pieces to bribe our way out of the Gravelands, but there's no bribing the dead. I want

you to have it, instead. I can't buy safety. None of us can. But I can, at least, offer this. Please. Take it and tell

me that–that you understand." Veldrienne took the pendant. It was an octagon of rose gold, holding a pressed

flower under glass in a ring of white seed pearls. The flower was familiar. Star alyssum. It had bloomed around the watcher-lord's palace and spilled from the window boxes of Vigil's tidy whitewashed homes, perfuming the city in summer. If she closed her eyes, she could almost breathe its delicate,

honeyed sweetness again. "I made them for crusaders traveling up to the Worldwound," the man explained. "For them to remember the homes and loved ones they left behind. I never thought that crusade would be won, or that I'd need to preserve the memory of Vigil on its own ground instead. But look. The back."

Veldrienne turned the pendant around. In the back, under a panel of rose gold inscribed "Vigil's blessing," was a compartment full of tiny black seeds. Mendev and the Sarkoris Scar were dotted with battlefield graves where star alyssum bloomed. Veldrienne knew those marked the final rest of knights from Lastwall, but she had never considered who carried the seeds there, or what it meant for a knight to lie beneath a bier of flowers on ground so grimly sanctified.

*Now, holding the pendant, she understood. "Thank you."* —Excerpt from "Tales of Lost Omens: Seeds of Hope," web-based fiction by Liane Merciel

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

# A MYSTERIOUS PATRON Clarethe was the first knight to swear the Crimson Oath, and the only one to know the source of its power, despite the curiosity and concerns of the rest of the Knights of Lastwall. Many suspect the Crimson Reclaimer regularly visits this force in secret, though despite multiple attempts, no one has managed to catch Clarethe in the act.

Clarethe's passions run hot indeed, and she feels grief, joy, and anger with equal intensity. Unquestionably, she took the loss of her mother Gwyndria much harder than Kalabrynne, and every knight knows Clarethe's truest desire is to conquer the ruins of Vigil. It is most likely this quest that led to the fiery argument between her and her surviving mother, when Clarethe stormed from Vellumis with her most ardent allies in tow. This, then, was the schism among the knights that led to the formation of the Crimson Reclaimers. Since then the two Iomedars have made peace, and the two orders are one again; family and order each now more tightly bound than ever. Clarethe still prefers the field, though, for she is a creature of action.

Tales of the Sunset Angel are common among the Crimson Reclaimers and their allies, each stranger than the last. A Varisian potion-brewer tells me Clarethe crosses the Ustalavic border at each half-moon to court a maiden stitched together from corpses and given life by lightning's stroke, and that she occasionally sends knights as couriers to her lady love, bearing gifts of grave-bloomed flowers and jewelry of hammered meteor-iron that draws the lightning. Then there was the craggy orc knight reclaimant with more scar than skin, who spoke enraptured of how Clarethe sings to her bastard sword in battle; how it chants the Crimson Oath in chorus with her; and how at times she seems to take its counsel and sends knights far afield to counter unforeseen enemy movements. Of these tales there is little proof; yet I say that a tale need not be factual to be true, especially in dark and hopeless times.

Patronage Veiled in Mystery Much has been made of the mysterious patron of the Reclaimers. I asked Clarethe about her patron one night, when the fires were burning low and only the sentries stood waking. For a few moments she considered her crimson brand, first of its kind; then, as much to the sword as to me, said, "Whether born of evil or reborn by evil, all creatures hold the spark of destiny in their hearts. I choose to judge others not by their birth, but by their deeds, for the latter are what mark the world."

Then she winked at me, for she knew the nature of my birth and upbringing. "Isn't that so, Berry Veil?" she asked, ruffling my hair with her gauntleted hand, and I was glad for the silver-blue veil of my hair to hide my cherry- red cheeks. Clarethe often gives such deed-names (as her Iobarian forebears sometimes call them) to her allies among the knights, from the celestial- blooded archer and scout the reclaimers call Angel Eyes, to the diminutive halfling she named Kneebane. I could glean nothing more of her patron, but I can say with certainty this: Clarethe will suffer no evil, and she would break her oath without hesitation if it led the Reclaimers into temptation.

These are the Iomedars, mother and child. If they are not the leaders of the Knights of Lastwall, then they are surely the order's twin hearts. —Beirivelle Starshine, Shining Sentinel and Knight of Lastwall, when asked who leads the knights or why the order is split in twain

## KNIGHTS IN TRAINING The following feats represent benefits of training from the Iomedars (Kalabrynne for knight vigilant, Clarethe for knight reclaimant, either for Lastwall sentry).

RESCUER'S PRESS FEAT 4 RARE ARCHETYPE Prerequisites Lastwall Sentry Dedication (Lost Omens World Guide 47)

Any shield you wield gains the shove trait. When you Shove using a shield and Stride as part of that action, you can move an additional 5 feet to either side of the creature you Shoved. In addition, if you are in the Everstand Stance (*Lost Omens Character Guide* 90) and successfully Shove a creature using a shield that you wield two-handed, you can increase the distance of your Shove to 10 feet.