# KASSI AZIRIL

SHALL NOT FALTER, SHALL NOT ROUT FEAT 10 RARE ARCHETYPE Prerequisites Knight Reclaimant Dedication (Lost Omens Character Guide 95) You gain the shall not falter, shall not rout focus spell. If you don't already have one, you gain a focus pool of 1 Focus Point, which you can regain using the Refocus activity to recite the Crimson Oath and meditate on its teachings. If you already have a focus pool, increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1. Your knight reclaimant focus spells are divine spells; when you gain this feat, you become trained in divine spell attacks and spell DCs and your spellcasting ability is Charisma.

VIGIL'S WALLS RISE ANEW! ![figure: double chevron icon] FEAT 10 ![figure: blue rectangle with "RARE"] ![figure: red rectangle with "ARCHETYPE"] Prerequisites Knight Vigilant Dedication (Lost Omens Character Guide 94), Shield Block As part of daily preparation, you can drill with a number of allies up to your Charisma modifier. These allies must be present and listening during this time, but this does not otherwise impede their own preparation. When you use this feat's benefit, you and all drilled companions within 30 feet who are wielding shields Raise a Shield. Allies who Raise their Shields keep them raised until the start of their next turn, as normal.

New Focus Spells SHALL NOT FALTER, SHALL NOT ROUT FOCUS 5 RARE HEALING NECROMANCY Cast verbal

Duration 1 minute Calling out the fifth line of the Crimson Oath, you seal your most grievous injuries with a stroke of your blade. The first time each round that you Strike with your weapon and deal damage to a foe, you recover a number of HP equal to twice *shall not falter, shall not rout*'s level. This healing can't raise your current HP above half of your maximum HP.

# FAMILY STORIES While Kalabrynne and Clarethe's relationship is no longer antagonistic, the two often cannot resist teasing each other. When doing so, they often reference these stories from their days before Lastwall fell.

**Clarethe's Wolf:** Kalabrynne is fond of telling overly enthusiastic or impetuous squires the tale of how Clarethe, as a youthful squire of Lastwall, once tore bloody hell through the local garrison screaming for aid against a "werewolf," which turned out to be one of the local rangers' tame wolfhounds. Clarethe still has not lived the experience down.

Mother Hen: Perhaps as revenge for her mother Kalabrynne favorite story (never mind that she's been telling this one longer), Clarethe takes every opportunity to tell overly cautious companions the long list of rules and warnings she had to endure from Kalabrynne during her childhood—a list which seems to grow with each new telling.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

Let it be known to all citizens of and visitors to Cheliax that the heretic Kassi Aziril, blasphemer against the Prince of Law, is hereby sentenced to death. Those who offer information leading to her arrest shall be rewarded, and those who offer her succor shall be destroyed. None shall defy the might of Cheliax. –Signed by Her Infernal Majestrix Abrogail the Second of the Thrice-Damned House of Throne, by the Might of Asmodeus, Queen and Empress of Cheliax

KASSI AZIRIL

INNOVATIVE SCIENTIFIC HEALER NG FEMALE HUMAN ALCHEMIST *Dr. Aziril,*

I want you to know, first, that I would still very much like to see you give a guest lecture at the Venicaan College of Medicaments and Chirurgery—at least, some day. Your credentials from over a dozen academies, as well as your many medical breakthroughs, speak for themselves. If those were the only things speaking to your name, that would be that. Yet though I know that it was I who approached you, I must commit the grave offense of rescinding the invitation. The Peerless are not best pleased by some of the things you have said in the past, particularly about Sarenrae. While I know we are all people of our word, perhaps if you would walk some of these statements back, I might be able to gain some traction? To call the Dawnflower "a bloody killer in the guise of a healer, willing to murder an entire city rather than deign to explain herself" seems particularly harsh, and not at all supported by the scripture.

To the same concern, I would like to introduce your research on addiction to our scholars to help combat the import of drugs, but they are having trouble seeing past the foreword. You wrote, "The reason so many people misunderstand addiction is that they see it as a personal mental failing. In truth, addiction is a disease tied to the life force that gives us instincts like hunger or thirst. The gods intentionally built mortals to be susceptible to addiction so we could be more easily deluded and addicted to religion and faith, and it is through that vulnerability that drugs prey upon us." Is this theological aside within a medical text truly necessary?

*I hope we can come to an agreement, for the good of an entire generation of Qadira's best and brightest medical minds.* —*Grand Vizier Hebizid Vraj*

Sometimes called the Mother of Medicine, Kassi Aziril's stubborn insistence on relying on science and alchemy over the use of magical care for the sick and injured led her to a bevy of major discoveries that had been, until recently, ignored by the medical community, due to the much more available access to divine healing throughout most of the world. Yet in Rahadoum, where faith in the gods is persecuted, techniques like those pioneered by Kassi are literal lifesavers. With degrees from major universities across Golarion and an apprenticeship with Artokus Kirran, the precocious Kassi Elaran traveled the world to further refine her techniques. Discoveries like kandleare, a deep sea algae with astounding medicinal properties, led to further breakthroughs, and studies with other medical practitioners helped her cultivate kandleare in her laboratories. She returned to Rahadoum to focus on her research, periodically sharing reports or updates with other scholars or government agencies for peer reviews and the like.

In 4708 AR, scholars in Taldor and Qadira plagiarized Kassi's work on battlefield medicine within 1 month of each other, each to great acclaim. The Rahadoum government stepped in to protect Kassi's original authorship, realizing the potential for her discoveries. They asked her to generate a book-length report on her medicine and then published it, ensuring that her work was not only properly attributed to her, but also securing more control over it for the government. As a further show of solidarity, she and her family were adopted into Rahadoum's prestigious Aziril clan, changing her name to Kassi Aziril.

With greater support from the government, Kassi's research and discoveries grew, yet her methods often proved difficult for others to replicate, in part due to Kassi's unwillingness to make her kandlerae derivative available to the public. Her methods of administering battlefield medicine and her observations into the nature of disease have taken on lives of their own, however, with the methods being adopted more and more by soldiers, healers, scholars, and adventurers throughout the Inner Sea region.

**KASSI'S TECHNIQUES** While Kassi shares her greatest discoveries with the entire medical community, some of her techniques are either still experimental or extremely difficult to perform. Any students who Kassi takes on gain access to her techniques.

Vaccines Vaccines are a more focused variant of antiplague, designed to provide complete immunity to a specific strain of a single illness rather than to bolster the immune system against all disease. Creating a vaccine requires a sample of the disease in question.

VACCINE ITEM 1+ RARE CONSUMABLE ELIXIR Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L Activate Interact A vaccine grants a creature immunity to a specific strain of disease of a level equal to or less than the vaccine's level, and a +2 item bonus on all saving throws against other strains of the same disease. For example, a vaccine could grant immunity to filth fever inflicted by otyughs, but would only grant a +2 saving throw bonus against filth fever inflicted by a giant rat. Type minor; Level 1; Price 4 gp The duration is 1 hour. Type lesser; Level 3; Price 12 gp The duration is 24 hours. Type moderate; Level 6; Price 50 gp The duration is 1 week.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Abrogail Thrune II (page 8), Artokus Kirran (page 18), Hashim ibn Sayyid (page 50), Hebizid Vraj (page 120), Jakalyn (page 56), Tar-Baphon (page 104)

Abrogail— I'm afraid I had to void your requested contract. The Red Mantis have a moratorium on any further action against the woman in question. Several years ago, one of my people took divine offense against the doctor for a transgression which turned out to be on false pretenses—an unfounded rumor that the doctor had resurrected

one of our marks without divine assistance. I admit I was as vexed as you were when I heard the claim, but it turned out to be a mistake on my agent's part. As recompense for our error, the Red Mantis will not be involving the woman in question in any further assignments. We must all be willing to own our mistakes, and so avoid being blinded by them. I am sure you agree. While I regret that we will be unable to collaborate this time, I am certain someone so resourceful and intelligent will have no trouble finding

someone else to do it for you.. Regarding the other matter, I have personally confirmed its completion. Check the blood with your divinations, if you like. –N

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

## THE TRUTH ABOUT KANDLERAE Key to many of Kassi's breakthroughs was the rare algae known as kandlerae. She was introduced to the substance by Pactbroker Hashim ibn Sayyid via a series of missives, but only recently has she started to suspect that his motives might be sinister. By helping her to develop methods of healing based on science rather than faith, the veiled master posing as Hashim hopes to further erode the very concept of faith itself, something very different than what Kassi hopes to accomplish. Now that Kassi has an inkling of the veiled master's insidious schemes, whether or not its influence will play out the way it plans, only time will tell. Regardless, none can argue that what Kassi has accomplished has been anything but beneficial to her patients and the medical community at large.

Type greater; Level 12; Price 400 gp The duration is 1 year. Type major; Level 18; Price 5,000 gp The duration is permanent.

Addiction Suppressant The method of developing addiction suppressants are different than those for antiplague or vaccines. For every drug, a specific suppressant must be crafted—no generalized addiction suppressant yet exists. In order to create an addiction suppressant, you must begin with a dose of the drug to be suppressed, then use alchemical reagents to generate an elixir that can be used to fight that drug's addiction. An addiction suppressant must be a higher level than the drug it is meant to suppress in order to work.

ADDICTION SUPPRESSANT ITEM 1+ RARE CONSUMABLE ELIXIR Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L Activation Interact When you use a dose of addiction suppressant, it suppresses the effects of that addiction for 1 day, as if you had taken an actual dose of the drug, but without any of the drug's effects, and it doesn't increase the addiction DC. You also gain an item bonus against the ongoing save against the drug's addiction depending on the type of addiction suppressant. Type lesser; Level 1; Price 2 gp You gain a +1 item bonus. Type moderate; Level 6; Price 30 gp You gain a +2 item bonus. Type greater; Level 10; Price 140 gp You gain a +3 item bonus. Type major; Level 14; Price 500 gp You gain a +4 item bonus.

Skill Feats Learning straight from the Mother of Modern Medicine provides unique advantages.

MEDICAL RESEARCHER FEAT 1 RARE GENERAL SKILL Prerequisites trained in Medicine Kassi has taught you not only how to apply medicines with your medical skills but how to craft them as well. When you Craft healer's kits, vaccines, addiction suppressants, antidotes, antiplagues, elixirs of life, or other non-magical medical or healing items, you can use Medicine instead of Crafting.

PARAGON BATTLE MEDICINE FEAT 7 RARE GENERAL SKILL Prerequisites Battle Medicine, master in Medicine Kassi Aziril taught you her techniques that originated the modern use of Battle Medicine. When you successfully use Battle Medicine, you can also reduce the target's sickened, enfeebled, or clumsy condition by 1 (this has no effect if you are subject to an effect continually applying the clumsy condition, like enlarge). If you are legendary in Medicine, you can choose to reduce the target's frightened or stunned condition by 1 instead, and if you have the Godless Healing feat (Pathfinder Lost Omens World Guide 56), you can choose to reduce the target's stupefied or drained condition by 1 instead. If you have the Mortal Healing feat, you can reduce all available conditions by 1 for a target who hasn't benefited from positive or healing magic in the last 24 hours, and if you roll a critical success before applying the effects of the feat, you reduce all available conditions by 2 for that target instead.