# KEVOTH-KUL

## FAMILIAR FACES Kevoth-Kul was encountered during the events of the Iron Gods Adventure Path. Though a dangerous and capricious figure, _Legends_ assumes that explorers from the Numerian town of Torch–as played by the PCs–managed to help the Black Sovereign shake free of his addictions and finally see how he had been manipulated by the Technic League.

KEVOTH-KUL

BLACK SOVEREIGN OF NUMERIA CN MALE HUMAN BARBARIAN From a young age, the Numerian warlord Kevoth-Kul showed impressive ambition, claiming leadership of the Black Horses clan in a trial of ordeals in 4687 AR. One year later, after conquering most of the neighboring lands, he was able to gain the willing alliance of several of Numeria's other clans. It took 3 more years to win the cautious acceptance of the remaining clans, who began to believe that Kevoth-Kul could be a truly great leader that would unite the land of Numeria. Declaring the mysterious city of Starfall to be his capital, Kevoth-Kul crowned himself Black Sovereign in 4690 AR.

Yet his downfall began when he forged a tenuous alliance with the Technic League—a reclusive group of researchers obsessed with studying the highly advanced alien technological artifacts scattered across Numeria. Goaded by representatives of the Technic League, Kevoth-Kul took to consuming the strange otherworldly liquids known as Numerian fluids that drip and pool from the broken remnants of the crashed starship whose ruins dot his country. Kevoth-Kul drastically underestimated just how addictive Numerian fluids could be, and this act of hubris quickly gave way to an addiction that made him a puppet of the Technic League for well over 20 years.

Under the sway of Numerian fluids, Kevoth-Kul fell into a decadent torpor, broken on occasion by violent rages, fugue states, and the increasingly rare bout of clearheaded rulership. The Technic League found it a relatively easy task to control the Black Sovereign in this state, using silvered words and subtle magical manipulations along with their seeming inexhaustible supply of Numerian drugs, ensuring their control of the nation in all but name.

All that changed in 4716 AR with the death of Technic League leader **Ozmyn Zaidow** (CE male human technomancer) and the scattering of its remaining members. The events leading to the destruction of the Technic League resulted in Kevoth-Kul shaking free of the addiction that ruled him for decades. Realizing how badly he'd been used by his allies, the Black Sovereign succumbed to a rage, slaughtering the remnants of the Technic League who were foolish enough to stay within his reach. Over the next several weeks, Kevoth-Kul withdrew to his personal chambers, free of his physical dependencies but still fighting off the mental toll of his addictions. He allowed few to see him until he returned to his throne, refusing to speak of his time under the effects of Numerian fluids. For all intents and purposes, he acted as if the previous quarter-century had never occurred.

Kevoth-Kul is now a changed man. Though in his early fifties, Kevoth-Kul appears no older than 30 due to one of the side-effects of consuming Numerian fluids. Unknown to most, Kevoth-Kul is effectively immortal, freed from death save by violence, poison, or disease. Unfortunately, while many of the physical side effects were beneficial, unpleasant mental consequences also linger. Kevoth-Kul's behavior is occasionally erratic, and there is much he saw in his drug-induced visions that has given him unique insight, but still haunts his waking hours.

Kevoth-Kul's palace remains a place of debauchery, with one crucial exception: Numerian fluids are banned on the premises. Kevoth-Kul has been known to personally execute anyone caught violating this edict. Similarly, anyone so foolish as to claim allegiance to the Technic League, or to be known as a former member, has nothing to look forward to at the palace other than a violent death.

# REFORGING A SHATTERED FUTURE The residents of Starfall now watch Kevoth-Kul with a wary eye, uncertain of the ruler's next move. Though the Black Sovereign has made some token moves to undo the cruelty he had inflicted on his people during his descent into hedonism, he still brooks little challenge to his authority, and years of being subject to his capricious whims have eroded any trust or respect he might have won in his earlier days. Kevoth-Kul keeps his thoughts to himself, having learned the price of relying on the counsel of others. As a result, few can claim to understand the motives behind his actions, as they could as easily be some manner of far-reaching plan as they could be a product of one of Kevoth-Kul's erratic mood swings.

In one of his more curious moves, Kevoth-Kul recently sent Chancellor Irahai of Mendev a beautiful scimitar made of an alloy of cold iron and the skymetal noqual—Kevoth-Kul personally developed this alloy, naming it "sovereign steel." While Irahai gratefully accepted the gift, she also recognized she was not familiar enough with Kellid traditions to be certain what hidden meaning might have been behind the exchange. Researching the matter with other Kellid clans has been of little help, as such an act could be potentially interpreted by different clans as either a marriage proposal, an offer of fealty, or an act of war. So far, Kevoth-Kul has deferred any further explanation. The unique alloyed blade, with its hypnotic acid-etched surface, remains his only message.

Despite Kevoth-Kul's bloody purge of the Technic League, the capital of Starfall has become a haven for at least one survivor of that shattered organization. The scarred gnome Khismar Crookchar has managed to hide his former allegiances, pretending to be a victim and experiment of the Technic League. As Khismar has proved adept at rooting out other members of the Technic League for Kevoth-Kul to personally execute, the gnome has currently won the Black Sovereign's favor. Khismar has also provided Kevoth-Kul with a number of petrified heads of former Technic League captains, which Kevoth-Kul keeps in a pile in his throne hall. Khismar is playing a dangerous game, however, and should Kevoth-Kul ever discover the gnome's true loyalties, Khismar's end would be swift and brutal.

In addition to the Technic League's victims, Kevoth-Kul welcomed androids into his service with open arms. Many androids are also victims of the Technic League, or otherwise have their own reasons to despise it, and a good number have knowledge on how to use advanced technology, making them a solid replacement for the Technic League's expertise. Some of these androids have become Kevoth-Kul's personal honor guard, while others teach their Kellid counterparts how to utilize technology or join bands of hunters who scour Numeria in hopes of rooting out Technic League agents who have thus far evaded their fate. A small number have instead traveled north to do battle with the demons of the Sarkoris Scar, easing some of the Blades of Aaramor's burden of defending the nation's border.

Even these new allies have little idea what Kevoth-Kul is currently planning. Rumors abound that the Black Sovereign, now free of his addiction, may return to his plans for conquering Numeria. Yet this prospect is far less appealing after over 20 years of erratic behavior and cruelty—the once great image of Kevoth-Kul is tarnished; likely beyond repair. Kevoth-Kul's revenge on the Technic League also earned him many more powerful enemies, as survivors of the League have found refuge under other Numerian warlords, taking their stockpiles of advanced technology with them. Any move to turn Numeria into a single nation and a power on the world stage will face far more resistance than it did in Kevoth-Kul's prime.

Kevoth-Kul currently has several short-term goals, primarily focusing on shoring up the losses to his political might. While Starfall and much of Sovereign's Reach remains

PEOPLE OF NOTE Casandalee (*Lost Omens Gods and Magic* 57), Irahai (page 54), Khismar Crookchar (page 78), Zyphus (*Lost Omens Gods and Magic* 130)

# PALACE OF FALLEN STARS Kevoth-Kul rules from the keep of the Black Sovereign in Starfall—a slick, high-walled compound surrounded by squat defense towers and capped with an immense metal dome. The palace interior contains a vibrant environment that leaps between the crude and the cosmopolitan in a way that is jarring to many visitors. Chained skeletons, free-roaming exotic pets, and gruesome piles of skulls and other trophies mingle alongside luxurious baths, libraries, electric lights, and the highly advanced technological constructs known as gearsmen that serve as guards. The keep is usually in a state of constant revelry, with harried chefs providing meals and alcohol for feasts at all hours; demands for entertainment see a number of acrobats and storytellers present in the palace at all times, and guests have access to enough drug paraphernalia to put the finest Chelaxian parlors to shame. The recent influx of android residents and the Black Sovereign's newfound aversion to addictive substances has ushered in a more temperate atmosphere of late, though not by much.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z

ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

# NOQUAL Noqual is a type of skymetal—an extremely rare metal that originated from distant planets and dead stars. Scarce even compared to other skymetals, noqual appears as pale-green crystals but can be forged like metal into equipment as strong as—but lighter than—iron. Noqual also exhibits magic-resistant properties, which makes crafting magic weapons from the skymetal expensive and difficult, a trait sovereign steel appears to avoid.

firmly in his grasp, areas further beyond have begun slipping toward a form of semi- independence, a development Kevoth-Kul seeks to rectify. In particular, the Black Sovereign would like to see that the city of Chesed—and by extension, its material wealth and influence in regional trade—remains in his own hands. Kevoth-Kul is aware that the city of Hajoth Hakados remains his nation's most accessible port for purloined technology and hopes to convince its ruler, **Lady Altouna** (NG female lashunta wizard), that the two of them would benefit more as allies than as enemies. While hesitant, Altouna is weighing Kevoth-Kul's offers of protection against her current reliance on the violent Kellid Blood Gars clan, and may be amenable to forging a deal if she believes the Black Sovereign can prove himself reliable.

Domestically, the rebellious clans in western Numeria pose a threat to trade and stability across the country—Kevoth-Kul requires loyal agents able to turn them to his side, bring them to heel or, if necessary, send a message that active instigation isn't in their best interests. Kevoth-Kul's new edicts have proven unpopular with several clans, particularly the technology-loathing Ghost Wolves. The Ghost Wolves' chieftain, **Xol-Nomag** (CN female human barbarian), is herself one of the more powerful figures in Numerian politics, and finds Kevoth-Kul's cozying up to settled Kellids, androids, and outsiders nearly as much of an outrage as his apparent embrace of forbidden technologies. Kevoth-Kul has mostly ignored the situation, but if tensions persist, it's only a matter of time before Kevoth-Kul and Xol-Nomag go to war.

Some believe Kevoth-Kul's long-term ambition is no less than the unification of every Kellid clan, Numerian or otherwise, into a single great empire. By most estimates, this plan would be nigh impossible to implement, but Kevoth-Kul is learning the value of patience—as an immortal, he has literally all the time in the world.

KUL-INKIT Kevoth-Kul's consort and second-in-command, **Kul-Inkit** (CN female human barbarian), lost any affection for him out of disgust for his drug-fueled hedonism. His recent turn around in behavior has managed to rekindle her interest, if not her passion, and though she is still reluctant to spend time with him, she seems to wholeheartedly support his current goals. She has become a devout believer in Casandalee as proof that technology is key to Numeria's future. Kul-Inkit is one of the few aware of Kevoth-Kul's immortality and hopes to find a way to join him as perpetual corulers of a unified Kellid nation. To this end, she has made quiet inquiries via trusted agents about acquiring some of Thuvia's famed sun orchid elixir, immortality through genie wishcraft, and her preferred method: uploading her consciousness into a construct.

# KEVOTH-KUL'S ARMORY Kevoth-Kul has lately amassed technological wonders. BLADE OF THE BLACK SOVEREIGN ITEM 15

UNIQUE EVOCATION LIGHTNING MAGICAL Price 6,500 gp Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2 This +2 greater striking shock greatsword is forged from standard-grade adamantine, with inlays of broken circuitry and a robot's ocular lens on the cross guard. A soft thrum comes from the blade, which you feel as a subtle pulse through the grip when wielding it. It sparks when unsheathed, emitting dim light within 5 feet. On a hit against a foe made of metal, wearing metal armor, or using a metal shield, if the foe takes electricity damage from the blade, the makes the foe flat-footed for 1 round; if the Strike was a critical hit, it also makes them clumsy 1 for 1 round.

**Activate** <figure: two black diamond icons side by side> command, Interact; **Effect** You cast the *electric arc* cantrip from the sword as an 8th-level primal spell, using 10 + your melee attack modifier with the *Blade of the Black Sovereign* as your spell DC.

SOVEREIGN STEEL RARE PRECIOUS Created by Black Sovereign Kevoth-Kul, this unique alloy of cold iron and the skymetal noqual can provide protection from magical assault. The process of cold-forging the two materials together is quite complicated and precise. Characters in search of sovereign steel weapons and armor will almost assuredly have to travel to Starfall to procure gear made from this rare alloy. While some believe it possible to craft shields of sovereign steel as well, in one of his fits, Kevoth-Kul yelled that he had no use for them and banned anyone from making such a thing. So far, his smiths have been too afraid to confirm whether or not it was a joke. All sovereign steel items (including weapon and armor below) have a +4 circumstance bonus on saves against magic that the item makes, and grant their bonus to saves the owner makes specifically to protect the item from magic (such as against the rusting grasp spell).

Type sovereign steel chunk; Price 700 gp; Bulk L Type sovereign steel ingot; Price 7,000 gp; Bulk 1 Type standard-grade sovereign steel object; Level 9; Price 500 gp per Bulk Type high-grade sovereign steel object; Level 17; Price 8,000 gp per Bulk

<table><thead><tr><th>Sovereign Steel Items</th><th>Hardness</th><th>HP</th><th>BT</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><th>Thin Items</th><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Standard-grade</td><td>7</td><td>28</td><td>14</td></tr><tr><td>High-grade</td><td>10</td><td>40</td><td>20</td></tr><tr><th>Items</th><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Standard-grade</td><td>11</td><td>44</td><td>22</td></tr><tr><td>High-grade</td><td>14</td><td>56</td><td>28</td></tr><tr><th>Structures</th><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Standard-grade</td><td>22</td><td>88</td><td>44</td></tr><tr><td>High-grade</td><td>28</td><td>112</td><td>56</td></tr></tbody></table>

SOVEREIGN STEEL ARMOR ITEM 13+ RARE Usage worn armor; Bulk varies by armor Sovereign steel armor sickens certain creatures that touch it. A creature with weakness to cold iron that critically fails an unarmed attack against a creature in sovereign steel armor becomes sickened 1, and such a creature is sickened 1 as long as it wears sovereign steel armor. The noqual in sovereign steel armor provides protection against magic, granting you a +1 circumstance bonus to AC against spell attack rolls. If you Cast a Spell while wearing sovereign steel armor, you must succeed at a DC 5 flat check or the spell fails. Type standard-grade sovereign steel armor; Level 13; Price 2,400 gp + 240 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 150 gp of cold iron + 15 gp per Bulk plus at least 150 gp of noqual + 15 gp per Bulk.

Type high-grade sovereign steel armor; Level 20; Price 50,000 gp + 5,000 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 12,500 gp of cold iron + 1,250 gp per Bulk plus at least 12,500 gp of noqual + 1,250 gp per Bulk.

SOVEREIGN STEEL WEAPON ITEM 12+ RARE Usage varies by weapon; Bulk varies by weapon Sovereign steel weapons are treated as cold iron against creatures with a weakness to cold iron, like demons and fey. In addition, the noqual in sovereign steel weapons disrupts spellcasters' concentration, causing them to become stupefied 1 for 1 round on a critical hit. Type standard-grade sovereign steel weapon; Level 12; Price 1,600 gp + 160 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 100 gp of cold iron + 10 gp per Bulk plus at least 100 gp of noqual + 10 gp per Bulk. Type high-grade sovereign steel weapon; Level 19; Price 32,000 gp + 3,200 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 8,000 gp of cold iron + 800 gp per Bulk plus at least 8,000 gp of noqual + 800 gp per Bulk.

# THE IRON GODDESS Guided by some of his troubled visions, Kevoth-Kul took to making forays into Silver Mount, fighting off its numerous threats and discovering rare technologies along the way. It was during one of these excursions that he became aware of the risen android-turned-AI-turned-goddess, Casandalee. Never a particularly spiritual man, Kevoth-Kul was still awed by the goddess' divine ascension and thinks of her as an inspiring and guiding figure for his new reign. Few nations can make claim to an immortal ruler guided by an immortal goddess native to that realm, and that Numeria has produced both is–in Kevoth-Kul's mind, at least–testament to its

grand destiny. Kevoth-Kul brought word of Casandalee to the palace, having the abandoned chapel to Zyphus (an evil god of accidental death) that was originally installed by the Technic League's Black Seers rededicated to the Iron Goddess. Casandalee has proven popular with the palace residents—certainly more so than Zyphus ever was—and in particular with Kevoth-Kul's consort Kul-Inkit, who has taken to Casandalee's faith with zeal.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX