# KHISMAR CROOKCHAR

SOVEREIGN STEEL RARE PRECIOUS Created by Black Sovereign Kevoth-Kul, this unique alloy of cold iron and the skymetal noqual can provide protection from magical assault. The process of cold-forging the two materials together is quite complicated and precise. Characters in search of sovereign steel weapons and armor will almost assuredly have to travel to Starfall to procure gear made from this rare alloy. While some believe it possible to craft shields of sovereign steel as well, in one of his fits, Kevoth-Kul yelled that he had no use for them and banned anyone from making such a thing. So far, his smiths have been too afraid to confirm whether or not it was a joke. All sovereign steel items (including weapon and armor below) have a +4 circumstance bonus on saves against magic that the item makes, and grant their bonus to saves the owner makes specifically to protect the item from magic (such as against the rusting grasp spell).

Type sovereign steel chunk; Price 700 gp; Bulk L Type sovereign steel ingot; Price 7,000 gp; Bulk 1 Type standard-grade sovereign steel object; Level 9; Price 500 gp per Bulk Type high-grade sovereign steel object; Level 17; Price 8,000 gp per Bulk

<table><thead><tr><th>Sovereign Steel Items</th><th>Hardness</th><th>HP</th><th>BT</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><th>Thin Items</th><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Standard-grade</td><td>7</td><td>28</td><td>14</td></tr><tr><td>High-grade</td><td>10</td><td>40</td><td>20</td></tr><tr><th>Items</th><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Standard-grade</td><td>11</td><td>44</td><td>22</td></tr><tr><td>High-grade</td><td>14</td><td>56</td><td>28</td></tr><tr><th>Structures</th><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Standard-grade</td><td>22</td><td>88</td><td>44</td></tr><tr><td>High-grade</td><td>28</td><td>112</td><td>56</td></tr></tbody></table>

SOVEREIGN STEEL ARMOR ITEM 13+ RARE Usage worn armor; Bulk varies by armor Sovereign steel armor sickens certain creatures that touch it. A creature with weakness to cold iron that critically fails an unarmed attack against a creature in sovereign steel armor becomes sickened 1, and such a creature is sickened 1 as long as it wears sovereign steel armor. The noqual in sovereign steel armor provides protection against magic, granting you a +1 circumstance bonus to AC against spell attack rolls. If you Cast a Spell while wearing sovereign steel armor, you must succeed at a DC 5 flat check or the spell fails. Type standard-grade sovereign steel armor; Level 13; Price 2,400 gp + 240 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 150 gp of cold iron + 15 gp per Bulk plus at least 150 gp of noqual + 15 gp per Bulk.

Type high-grade sovereign steel armor; Level 20; Price 50,000 gp + 5,000 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 12,500 gp of cold iron + 1,250 gp per Bulk plus at least 12,500 gp of noqual + 1,250 gp per Bulk.

SOVEREIGN STEEL WEAPON ITEM 12+ RARE Usage varies by weapon; Bulk varies by weapon Sovereign steel weapons are treated as cold iron against creatures with a weakness to cold iron, like demons and fey. In addition, the noqual in sovereign steel weapons disrupts spellcasters' concentration, causing them to become stupefied 1 for 1 round on a critical hit. Type standard-grade sovereign steel weapon; Level 12; Price 1,600 gp + 160 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 100 gp of cold iron + 10 gp per Bulk plus at least 100 gp of noqual + 10 gp per Bulk. Type high-grade sovereign steel weapon; Level 19; Price 32,000 gp + 3,200 gp per Bulk; Craft Requirements at least 8,000 gp of cold iron + 800 gp per Bulk plus at least 8,000 gp of noqual + 800 gp per Bulk.

# THE IRON GODDESS Guided by some of his troubled visions, Kevoth-Kul took to making forays into Silver Mount, fighting off its numerous threats and discovering rare technologies along the way. It was during one of these excursions that he became aware of the risen android-turned-AI-turned-goddess, Casandalee. Never a particularly spiritual man, Kevoth-Kul was still awed by the goddess' divine ascension and thinks of her as an inspiring and guiding figure for his new reign. Few nations can make claim to an immortal ruler guided by an immortal goddess native to that realm, and that Numeria has produced both is–in Kevoth-Kul's mind, at least–testament to its

grand destiny. Kevoth-Kul brought word of Casandalee to the palace, having the abandoned chapel to Zyphus (an evil god of accidental death) that was originally installed by the Technic League's Black Seers rededicated to the Iron Goddess. Casandalee has proven popular with the palace residents—certainly more so than Zyphus ever was—and in particular with Kevoth-Kul's consort Kul-Inkit, who has taken to Casandalee's faith with zeal.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

Your gifts always entertain me, Crookchar. Bring more. –Kevoth-Kul

KHISMAR CROOKCHAR

TENACIOUS NUMERIAN DRUG DEALER

NE MALE GNOME ALCHEMIST *However Khismar manages to retain the favor of the Black Sovereign in the fallout of Casandalee's ascension, it is obvious he's poisoned the well for any of his former colleagues within the borders of Starfall. As surviving remnants and other salvagers notice the Blue Streak's growing technological monopolization, they pursue more obscure leads, diligently hiding the technology they find. Some such technology hunters risk their lives for the archaeological significance of their finds rather than value or personal gain. Yet after a few technology archaeologists went missing, those who remained understood that their academic motives did not forgive their actions in the eyes of their competition. They now hire bodyguards; their families hire search parties.*

For all of the unusual Numerian features the Rain of Stars caused, the fog across the Lake of Mists and Veils is not one. It occurs naturally, and the thickness of the fog depends on the patterns of the weather. This recent dry season, the fog thinned enough for the lake's southwestern shallows to be visible. The buzz around Starfall quickly turned to the report of dozens of headless statues below the water's surface. "Was this once dry land?" "Were they sculpted after specific people? If so, given their modern and futuristic accoutrement, were they connected to the Divinity, the starship that crashed in Numeria nearly ten millennia ago?" To those who never saw the Technic League, the significance of the missing heads presents an unsolvable mystery—but those of us who recognize an old colleague's clothing might come to an obvious solution.

*What Khismar plans to do from his new position currently eludes me—every one of his clandestine schemes that I uncover leaves more questions to answer. I recognized the value in him when he came before me years ago, and admit I undersold him even then. Though he has greatly damaged my plans for the Technic League, I confess a curiosity in seeing where his actions will lead...* —Excerpt from the journal of Zernebeth, former Technic League leader

# THE TECH RAT With electric blue streaks through his black hair, laser-precise facial scars, and bioluminescent eyes and veins, Khismar Crookchar has been forever marked by Numeria. Likewise, Numeria's landscape changed when this gnome scientist

pursued his curiosity about technology, bringing his unique brand of pharmaceuticals with him.

Members of the Technic League—an influential organization of spellcasters and other lore-seekers protective of Numeria's technological secrets—had a derogatory nickname for their erstwhile collaborator Khismar Crookchar: the tech rat. For years, Crookchar evaded League surveyors thanks to an endless supply of an elixir known as hype, which allowed him to remain active during all hours. By the time Khismar was discovered, he'd studied Numerian technology so extensively that he deftly used weapons known for their unpredictability against the League members who stumbled across him. He was presented to **Captain Zernebeth** (CN female human cyborg) as "salvage." The leader of the Technic League saw more value in the gnome as a member than a slave and brought Crookchar in as an initiate.

Crookchar never rose above that rank. He would have found himself ejected into the wastelands or worse if he wasn't supplying hype to Technic League officers with uncharacteristic consistency. Not just the standard hype available across Starfall—his continued development of the formula meant his often replicated and synthesized original recipe was rapidly rendered obsolete by Khismar's newest innovations. He shared his cutting-edge variant, called plasma hype, with his superior officers and select competitive members of the Technic League looking for an edge. Any Technic League relationships Crookchar nurtured were purely for his own benefit—those who believed in the League's goals particularly resented Crookchar for abusing resources and supplying drugs to their officers.

Crookchar was always his own best customer, chasing plasma hype for days until passing out for an equal amount of time or longer. When he woke, he countered his tiredness with another cycle of energy dosing. Side effects of his hype abuse resulted in the brightening of his hair, skin, veins, and irises, and a web-like pattern on his fingernails and teeth. For most users, these side effects were subtle and temporary. Crookchar used plasma hype so frequently that he permanently altered his physiology.

# UNLIKELY ALLIES When the Technic League disbanded and most of the officers were killed in 4716 AR, the remaining members were mostly made up of those with ill will toward the tech rat. Crookchar found out the hard way how unpopular he was with the lower-ranking remnants of the League. He survived regular threats to his life thanks to being underestimated, combined with an unlikely guardian.

Gawta (LE female medusa), a hype-using medusa from a cave near Starfall, had noticed the quality and availability of her pharmaceutical of choice had diminished. She investigated, leading her to Crookchar's trail. As her kind interacted minimally with non-medusas, Gawta observed him from dunes and shadows, the only evidence of her presence being the occasional appearance of a petrified would-be assassin. When Crookchar finally discovered his unexpected protector, he made Gawta a deal: he would supply her with regular shipments of plasma hype, leaking word of delivery to suspected Technic League remnants. She petrified the remnants that pursued the rumors, delivered their stone heads to Khismar, and disposed of their bodies in the nearby Lake of Mists and Veils.

Crookchar took the heads to Numeria's Kellid ruler, the Black Sovereign Kevoth-Kul. His intent was to use them as a threat and establish an arrangement similar to what the Technic League had with the hedonistic, ambivalent ruler. Crookchar unfortunately found that every rumor he'd heard about Kevoth-Kul was no longer true. In the presence of this ambitious leader and virulent hunter of former Technic League members, Crookchar rambled about being subject to

PEOPLE OF NOTE Casandalee (*Lost Omens Gods and Magic* 57), Choral the Conqueror (page 40), Kevoth-Kul (page 74), Magdelena and Martum Fallows (page 84), Tar-Baphon (page 104)

REMNANTS OF THE TECHNIC LEAGUE Though the Technic League officially dissolved in 4716 AR, some important members may have survived. They say Technic League Captain

Ozmyn Zaidow (CE male human technomancer)'s spirit fled his mind before the alien AI Unity neutralized it. Rumor is his ghost haunts Numeria with a vendetta against machines. When robots and androids act erratically, Numerians have started calling it "Zaidow's revenge." Zernebeth realized the League had been irreparably compromised. Taking advantage of the confusion and depleted roster of officers, she fled north to Mendev before Kevoth-Kul turned his rage on the remaining members. Mendev's instability covered her escape. Before the league disbanded.

Captain **Krastus** (NE male human tinkerer) shifted his specialty from cyborg animals to enhancing undead with cybernetics. Combined, these skills allowed him to amass a loyal army quickly, and he now counts himself among one of Numeria's many warlords.

One of many experiments abandoned in Silver Mount was the Brute, an AI-enhanced suit of powered armor. Despite its intelligence, it required a wearer to function. Yet the Brute has been spotted walking Numeria's plains—perhaps autonomously, or perhaps someone used it to escape Silver Mount.

# LAB NOTES *Venom Immunization Post Mortem* Ultimately, my hypothesis was disproved. Any similarities between a medusa's serpentine aspects and a comparable serpentine species are coincidental. Neon garter's venom proved impotent: only measurable effects 1 qt produced were mild cognitive impairment and moderate indigestion. Proper immunization requires direct source sample. Cognitive impairment too low to be worth developing as a weapon or to merit development for entertainment.

Technic League experimentation before offering the Black Sovereign the heads as a tribute. Kevoth-Kul took a liking to this curious glowing man who offered up his beheaded enemies unsolicited. He promised Crookchar honored standing among his tribe as long as Kevoth-Kul was regularly presented with Technic League remnants, or their remains. Taking this as a threat, Crookchar agreed.

Crookchar now does his best to live up to his side of the bargain. Occasionally this takes the form of intel on Technic League agents, but usually they are delivered in person, either whimpering and babbling due to a system full of hallucinogens or as a severed head turned to stone. Crookchar's relationship with the Black Sovereign's court allows him greater freedom to explore Numeria than most, granting him access to Numerian tech deep in Kellid territory and to Kevoth-Kul's resources. Although Crookchar takes full advantage of this relationship, it causes him constant anxiety. He knows the truth behind the lies that won Kevoth-Kul's favor could come to light, spelling certain death for the gnome.

# POLITICS MAKES STRANGE BEDFELLOWS When the remnants stopped falling for the Gawta gambit, Crookchar began actively hunting them. Occasionally, his quarries didn't present threats to him. If they had useful skills, he offered to spare them in exchange for their loyalty. Eventually he amassed a large group of technologically savvy minions. He dubbed them the Blue Streaks, after his electric-blue hair and the similarly hued stripes on Gawta's scales. The Blue Streaks helped Crookchar secure Numerian technology, eliminated Crookchar's enemies, and covered up Crookchar's other activities. It wasn't long before those Technic League members who knew Crookchar personally were all dealt with, leaving a growing number of remnants who know him only by reputation.

The closest Crookchar has come to having a friend is his accomplice Gawta the medusa. While he trusts her with his thoughts and truths, he does so because he knows her hype addiction ensures her loyalty. To cope with her dangerous gaze, they always meet in blackout hoods. Crookchar makes a point of bringing a sedated newt on his shoulder when he meets with Gawta; a sudden shift in weight where the animal rests would alert him that Gawta's veil has lifted and his life is at risk. Similarly, he only communicates with her in writing to set up meetings, and any writing they exchange is coded. Whenever Gawta confronts him on his paranoia, Crookchar points to the Blue Streaks being named after them both as indication of how highly he regards her. In truth, naming the Blue Streaks in part after the medusa's blue markings on her red scales was for plausible deniability. If the secret group is ever discovered, he will paint her as the group's sole leader—after killing Gawta and the rest of his minions, of course.

Despite his standing in the Black Sovereign's court, his relationship with Gawta, and his loyal followers, Crookchar cares only about his own goals. His multiple plots and the constant threats to his life forced his mind to finally focus on what mattered to him: survival and science. His newfound determination, along with his supply of potent pharmaceuticals, work to spread his influence across Numeria and beyond.

# SECRETS OF THE BLUE STREAKS Khismar's greatest accomplishments are alchemical in nature and his willingness to push the limits of ethics for the sake of his experiments has paid dividends. The following are some of his more notable developments. He only shares the formulas for these items with his trusted apprentices, and even then, only grudgingly so.

ALCHEMICAL ATOMIZER ITEM 10 RARE ALCHEMICAL Price 175 gp Usage held in 1 hands, Bulk L