# RAZMIR

No account of the wizard-king is complete without mention of his greatest rival, the necromancer Geb. The two archwizards blurred national lines with alarming frequency, each seeking to expand their reach at the expense of the other. Raids and skirmishes would evolve over decades and centuries into a deadly war, as Nex and Geb inflicted increasingly bizarre sorceries upon one another. From plagues that ossified hapless farmers to crawling behemoths the rival of any dragon, the devastating powers unleashed created a blighted no-man's land between the two nations, called the Mana Wastes. As thousands perished, the wizard-kings artificially extended their lives through obscure and perilous sorceries, creating a cold war that would span generations, ending suddenly when a Gebbite attack wreathed the city of Quantium in poisonous fumes. Though the attack cost countless lives, Nex was able to retreat to his personal demiplane, the Refuge of Nex, while the city rallied a defense, only for the wizard to vanish entirely from Golarion. Geb, haunted by an enemy truly beyond his reach for decades, finally ended his life a full 60 years later. Nex has yet to emerge from the Refuge, but his legend still looms over Garund.

# PERILOUS STIRRINGS Millennia after his disappearance, cryptic signs point to the stirring of an ancient power. New horrors haunt the Mana Wastes: gargantuan beasts and swarms of spell-stitched abominations that stalk the already-perilous region, devouring those that wander too far from well-defended roads. High King Anong Arunak has placed a bounty on these creatures, promising a great reward to those cunning enough to track the monsters to their source and end the threat to Dongun Hold. Meanwhile, in grim Ecanus, the fleshforges have been restive of late, cycling through their birthing sequence at random and spawning abominations that vanish into the night. Chief Fleshforger **Dunn Palovar** (N male human fleshforger) is quietly seeking aid in putting down these rogue beasts as he works to discover why the forges have begun spawning of their own volition.

Mere miles from Absalom's gates, the Cairnlands groan and tremble as the Spire of Nex thrums to an alien frequency. The northern passage has grown unsafe, and city scouts report strange flickerings in the sky on approach of the Spire. Wandering caravans have been waylaid and even veterans of the city vanguard have become lost, as familiar bends in the road unexpectedly point to the titanic monument. Acting Primarch Wynsal Starborn, ever wary of an attack, has challenged Pathfinder Society Venture-Captain Shevala Iorae to help Absalom's First Guard solve the mysteries of the Spire, that Starborn might lead an investigation into that baleful relic. As word of the challenge spreads, Absalom braces for the return of an ancient enemy.

Befitting a titan that profoundly impacted the history of Garund, Nex left behind a rich, if conflicted, legacy. Quantium's marvelous Bandeshar, with its floating towers and innumerable libraries, evokes the visionary who inspired generations of arcane advancement. The bleak Mana Wastes and the monstrous fleshforges of Ecanus recall the ruthless war master who spent innumerable lives in his quest for power. The grim and fantastical Spire of Nex that has loomed over Absalom for millennia is a monument to a man who challenged the gods themselves. In this fallen age, as the deepest reaches of the Bandeshar stir for the first time in ages, the many faces of Nex weigh heavily upon his people. Can this time of peace survive a living legend?

PEOPLE OF NOTE Anong Arunak (page 14), Aroden (Lost Omens World Guide 21), Geb (page 44), Count Ranalc (Pathfinder Lost Omens Gods and Magic 78), Venture-Captain Shevala Iorae (N female human sorcerer), Wynsal Starborn (page 118)

*If not for his war with Geb, Nex would likely be revered. No doubt he was a better man and better ruler than his rival. Ask my people how much that mattered.* –High King Anong Arunak

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z

ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

# A MYSTERIOUS LETTER Artokus Kirran: *I won the bid for the elixir. You and I both know the truth of what happened. Know that the Living God will remember.*

RAZMIR

# RULER OF RAZMIRAN LE MALE HUMAN WIZARD Leader of the nation he forged, Razmir is a ruler bold enough to call himself a living god. Claiming to have taken the test of the Starstone back in 4660 AR, this so-called deity set about carving out a swath of the River Kingdoms to call his own, destroying anyone who dared to stand in his way. In the years since, Razmir has attracted an influential cult of followers. Lured to him with the promise of prosperity and peace, converts more often than not find themselves struggling to survive in a nation that seems built to funnel wealth and privilege to the priests. They are told that only through more devotion to Razmir might they be able find a way into a paradise in this life.

Razmir shrouds his past in rumor and myth, especially when it comes to his life before his supposed attempt at the test of the Starstone. In fact, scholars who have attempted to collect a complete tale of the Living God's mortal days find the history filled with conflicting events and differing origins. Some stories, for example, claim that he grew up in Taldor, penniless on the streets of Oppara, begging for food and sleeping under a sewer grate; others purport that he was raised in Varisia on a small rural farm, destined to live a simple life until he uncovered the secret library of the Runelords, learning to wield their mighty power all on his own. Despite their differences, all of these stories bear a few basic similarities. In each, Razmir came from humble beginnings, neither wealthy nor powerful, but through his own cunning and daring, he rose to become a deity.

What is known conclusively is that he arrived in the River Kingdoms in 4661 AR and declared himself to the people of Xer, a town on the border with Kyonin. As Razmir gathered followers, the local magistrate attempted to arrest him inside the halls of his very first temple. Razmir offered the magistrate a place in the clergy if he would submit, but the magistrate refused. In a flash of power, the poor magistrate was transformed into a fox, left to wander the world, forced to finally believe his own senses. The town was under Razmir's control in less than a week, but this angered the nearby Duke Melcat of Aerduin, who considered Xer to be part of his domain. Razmir offered prosperity and peace to Duke Melcat if only he would convert to the faith. Three times Duke Melcat refused, and on the final refusal, Razmir summoned a cloud of smoke and flame that erased Aerduin from the face of Avistan. In this moment, Razmiran was born.

From there, the Living God spread his faith north, annexing over a dozen small fiefdoms and minor kingdoms. His army was made up entirely from converts—they were far from professional warriors, but with the personal backing of Razmir, they were rarely challenged. It was only upon reaching Ustalav that this expansion slowed. Razmir's attempts to annex further River Kingdoms have proven fruitless. That has not stopped him from trying, although he now employs subtler methods. The faithful of Razmir travel far and wide to spread the gospel. When arriving in a community, they immediately take up with the poor and indigent, offering them food, aid, and succor, all the while telling these desperate souls about the glory that is Razmir. With the new believers behind them, they then petition to open up a shrine and pressure local businesses to offer up donations to the church to protect and improve the neighborhood. If left unchecked, they soon infiltrate the local militia and then the government, using masks to hide the true identities of the faithful.