# SAPPHIRE BUTTERFLY

# HELLSPAWN IN CHELIAX Tieflings can face prejudice from many sources due to their association with fiends, but ironically, one of the places they are most despised is the devil-worshipping nation of Cheliax. Though citizens pay homage to the devil Asmodeus, society believes any relations with lesser devils should be one with the mortal firmly in command–tieflings are seen as a sign of a lapse in judgment and a corruption of a mortal bloodline.

SAPPHIRE BUTTERFLY

INFAMOUS REBEL VIGILANTE CG FEMALE TIEFLING 4TH HUMAN BARD The Night of Ashes changed everything for Vyvienne Ashurka. Before the sudden and brutal crackdown on dissidents against House Thrune, Vyvienne had been intensely focused on her career as an actor and singer in Kintargo's robust theater scene, hoping to achieve something like the fame of her favorite opera star, Shensen (CG female half-elf celebrity)—and hoping to keep her tiefling heritage forever concealed. She had been fortunate in both respects, steadily landing roles and easily using her magical powers to disguise the orange-tinged fur and yellow eyes that she owed to a rakshasa progenitor. She had left the slums of northern Westcrown behind for this opportunity, making the arduous journey to Kintargo with only her sister—they had left home after the death of their parents, who were slaughtered along with the other members of the Bastards of Erebus tiefling gang. Vyvienne was thus no stranger to violence and loss. But as dawn rose following that particularly blood-soaked night in Kintargo, as the flames still sputtered and the cries rose over Shensen's disappearance, Vyvienne felt the smoldering hate that she harbored for House Thrune burst into insatiable flames.

logo: stylized blue and purple butterfly, left margin she harbored for House Thrune burst into insatiable flames. It didn't take her long to find and join Shensen's revolutionary friends, the Silver Ravens. In searching for her idol, who was later rescued by heroes, Vyvienne quickly learned the worth of infiltration and espionage. Already adept at disguise, Vyvienne further learned its value as she crafted an alter ego, a new hero named the Sapphire Butterfly. In the guise of the Butterfly, she could act swiftly and directly against Thrune agents and raise the morale of the oppressed; as Vyvienne, she could sneak into a party hosted by local nobility and learn Thrune's secrets. She could also show her true heritage as the Butterfly, serving as a symbol to all the people of Cheliax of the power, intelligence, and beauty of tieflings.

With Vyvienne's tireless aid, the Silver Ravens succeeded in liberating Kintargo and creating the new state of Ravounel. Perhaps the Sapphire Butterfly's work could have ended there, and Vyvienne could have returned to the stage. But the stages of Kintargo now seemed too small to her. Yes, Ravounel was free, but Westcrown was not. Thrune still controlled most of Cheliax; beyond its borders, oppressed peoples struggled for freedom that was just barely out of reach.

When the Vidric rebels sailed into Kintargo's harbor, the Sapphire Butterfly was among the first to embrace them. She actively encouraged the alliance between these freedom fighters and the Silver Ravens that would lead to the birth of the Firebrands. When a rebellion sparked in Galt that claimed to be tied to the Firebrands, the Sapphire Butterfly immediately advocated assistance and was soon on the front lines. She now travels throughout the Inner Sea Region, showing up to aid the oppressed as they rise up, to foment rebellion forward, to end slavery, and to help local Firebrands in all such causes.

Vyvienne remains close to her sister, **Emylne** (NG female tiefling^APG human seamstress), who brims with courageous loyalty and offers her support whenever possible. But Emylne is happy to make costumes for Kintargo's operas and to contemplate bringing children into an improving world. Vyvienne has no such dreams for herself, no desire to settle down or to complicate the freedom that allows her to be where she is needed, whenever she is needed. In truth, she has never allowed herself to fall in love. She has never been willing to be that vulnerable—not even when romantic entanglements were in vogue among her acting friends, in those long-ago days before the Night of Ashes.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE When Vyvienne joined the Silver Ravens and their rebellion, she became familiar with the Bellflower Network, thanks to operative Laria Longroad (CG female

halfling information broker), who provided the Ravens with a safe house. The Sapphire Butterfly continues to work with the Bellflower Network, particularly with Kintargo's **Nolly Peltry** (CG female halfling abolitionist) and Farmers Magdelena and Martum Fallows, in their efforts to liberate halflings and eliminate slavery in Cheliax and beyond.

During her time as a Silver Raven, Vyvienne came to know **Lady Mialari Docur** (CN female elf spy), founder and headmistress of Lady Docur's School for Girls, and learned her secret: Lady Docur is also the founder and head of the Lacunafex, a spy network that operates throughout Cheliax. While the forlorn elf and the tiefling have little in common, they share knowledge and strategy in the fight against House Thrune. Docur has proved a pivotal ally in Vyvienne's endeavors, helping her keep up to date with the machinations of House Thrune to stay one step ahead of dottari and Hellknights while in Cheliax.

While she has constant clashes with Hellknights, Vyvienne has established a cautious yet promising relationship with Lictor Toulon Vidoc of the Order of the Scourge, though he is not quite aware of it yet. Using her connections with both the Bellflower Network and the Lacunafex, Vyvienne places strategic bread crumbs for Vidoc and his Hellknights to find, providing them with additional evidence in their investigation of Queen Abrogail II. Vidoc finds the ease of acquiring evidence to be unusually convenient and has since begun an investigation of the Order itself to determine the origin of this evidence.

From almost the moment that she sailed into Kintargo's harbor, Shimali Manux and Vyvienne have been close allies. Recognizing the similarities between the rebellions in Vidrian and Ravounel, Vyvienne embraced Shimali's cause, and the two women were instrumental in the birth of the international band of showboating rebels known as the Firebrands. Although they are seldom in the same place at the same time, they manage to work closely together. The Sapphire Butterfly has even been known to call on Manux's fleet for transportation to lands in need of Firebrand assistance.

The Sapphire Butterfly's relationship with Hurricane Queen Tessa Fairwind, leader of the Free Captains of the Shackles, is much more complicated, in part because of the role of the Free Captains who served as mercenaries for Sargava (now Vidrian). A philosophical gulf exists between the Firebrands, who tend to be idealistic and see themselves as serving the greater good, and the Free Captains, who prize freedom as it suits and serves themselves. This fundamentally mercenary creed is not necessarily shared by Tessa, but it colors the extent to which Vyvienne is willing to trust or ally with the Free Captains. For her part, Tessa grudgingly admires the work of some notable Firebrands and is willing to ally with them when they ask for aid, though such alliances are never public.

The Sapphire Butterfly's ultimate dream is a free Cheliax. Fueling that dream, deep in her soul, is a hatred of House Thrune. If she had the opportunity—even half of an opportunity—she would not hesitate to kill Queen Abrogail II. The feeling is mutual, with Queen Abrogail openly declaring the Sapphire Butterfly an enemy of Cheliax. The bounty on the Sapphire Butterfly's head has only made her efforts within Cheliax much more difficult, and exciting, as a result.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Abrogail Thrune II (page 8), Magdelena and Martum Fallows (page 84), Shimali Manux (page 96), Tessa Fairwind (page 108), Toulon Vidoc (page 112)

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z

ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX