# SIHAR

Today, Shimali commands Vidrian's navy. She is bemused that her reputation makes her seem a dashing figure, but she recognizes the value her legend serves Firebrand recruiters. Fortunately, legend and reality are not far apart: Shimali is a kind-hearted woman who goes out of her way to help others, and with an armada and the Firebrands at her back, she does more good than most.

# A GROWING LEGACY Shimali Manux's closest ally is her sister, Vulpia. Content to avoid politics, Vulpia serves on the Firebrand ship *Nightwave*, ensuring her twin's former rival—and current paramour—Captain **Devrin Arlos** (CG male human free captain) returns from his madcap adventures. No one knows Shimali's mind like Vulpia, which has led to trouble in recent times. Spymasters up and down the coast would pay dearly to question either sister about the other, and to date there have been two kidnapping attempts on Vulpia by enemies of Vidrian. The Firebrands dealt with these plots handily, and both Vulpia and Shimali have publicly laughed them off for the time being. Recently, the siblings have been working to stop Chelaxian ships from polluting nearby merfolk realms.

Shimali's other comrade-in-arms, Avarneus, is a member of Vidrian's ruling council. While they remain close, Avarneus sometimes frets that Shimali is still too idealistic, and that her good nature and thrill for adventure will prove her downfall. The two maintain frequent communication over Vidrian's affairs. New nations crave legitimacy, and Shimali works hard to lay the groundwork for future Vidric embassies, as well as seeking allies and fixers in foreign courts—particularly in older realms like Taldor and Qadira that are suspicious of revolutionaries.

When Shimali came petitioning Absalom for aid, she left with both diplomatic acknowledgment and a strong admiration for Wynsal Starborn. The two share a love of justice and the discomfort of being thrust into statecraft under extreme circumstances. Shimali is grateful for Starborn's advocacy when Vidrian was most vulnerable and keeps an eye out for opportunities to repay him in kind.

Nearly every Firebrand looks up to Shimali as the group's co-founder and dashing figurehead, and she counts the Silver Ravens' **Shensen** (CG female half-elf celebrity) as a dear friend. Shimali's fleet keeps the Sapphire Butterfly flitting from crisis point to crisis point—most recently smuggling escaped slaves for the Bellflower Network.

If Shimali fears anyone, it is Queen Abrogail Thrune II. To Thrune, Sargava was an upstart colony needing to be brought to heel, and Vidrian is merely a fiction. Cheliax's own revolutions have kept the monarch diverted, but it's only a matter of time before she aims her dread navy southward. Shimali is constantly looking for new maritime allies as a bulwark against this inevitability. Meanwhile, her support of the Firebrands, Ravounel, and the Bellflower Network helps keep House Thrune off balance—for now.

Yet not all of Shimali's enemies are so obvious. Two of her captains have recently been assassinated in Anthusis, Vidrian's capital. Worse yet, a broken thistle arrow shaft suggests the killer is Ekujae. Shimali refuses to believe the elves would strike out at her allies in such a way, leaving her to find investigators to unravel the mystery—and render the impartial verdict that she cannot.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Abrogail Thrune II (page 8), Avarneus (page 22), Magdelena and Martum Fallows (page 84), Sapphire Butterfly (page 94), Seimon Candelar (NG male human Gray Corsair), Tessa Fairwind (page 108), Wynsal Starborn (page 118)

# HONOR AMONG THIEVES Tessa Fairwind and Shimali have run afoul of each other numerous times—ever since Shimali nicked the Hurricane Queen's future flagship, the _Umbral Spark_, out from under one of Fairwind's lieutenants. They have had several engagements since, and each time the tides, misfortune, or magical chicanery have prevented a reckoning. Rumor has it that their antipathy has softened into grudging respect, especially as many Free Captains have found fortune and fame aiding Firebrand exploits.

# OLD FRIENDS During her time outside Mzali, Sihar spent several years at the Magaambya Academy. There she studied under the storyteller Janatimo, while also making allies of her fellow students. She was happy to know there were Emerald Boughs already in Mzali monitoring things–these were later indispensable in getting the Bright Lions off the ground. Thanks to the connections she made with the Rain-Scribes, she was able to set up a communication network to find allies and resources outside the city.

SHAR

# LEADER OF THE BRIGHT LIONS LG FEMALE HUMAN FIGHTER Living in the city-state of Mzali is perfectly safe, as long as you follow every law, wish, and whim of the child god Walkena, who has ruled the city-state for over 100 years. If he finds you lacking, in either faith or loyalty, Walkena or one of his priests will waste no time in publicly and painfully executing you. For Walkena is a descendant of the deities of the Mzali—and close enough to a god in power that even those who don't believe in his rightful rule can do little to oppose him.

Yet some in Mzali have said, "No more! This is not who the city is, this is not what the Old Sun Gods preached." They call themselves the Bright Lions, and they spend their time and resources organizing to fight against the tyranny that has overtaken their people. They speak of a time that Mzali was the center of a great empire, respected for its wealth and influence rather than for ruling with fear and cruelty. They say that one day things will be like that again, that one day they will overthrow Walkena, and that this day is coming.

Leading the Bright Lions is Sihar, a tall and muscular woman in her mid-thirties, with the appearance of a warrior but the bearing of a scholar. Her face and body bear the scars of her years as a mercenary, her fingers calloused by both a sword and a brush pen. She wears her hair tight and high on her head, only letting it down when by herself or with her closest friends and companions. Unlike the reds and golds of many of the Bright Lions, Sihar usually dresses in blues and reds, with bright gold accents woven through her garments. Her style is practical, always ready to enter battle at a moment's notice, but prepared to talk politics or preach the word of the old gods if it might win a sympathetic ear—she is said to always carry a dagger and a book.

# GROWING UP UNDER THE CHILD GOD Sihar grew up without a family. She doesn't know if they were executed by Walkena like so many others, or if they simply abandoned her as a child. She remembers growing up in a temple dedicated to Walkena, remembers priests teaching her how he was a holy descendant of the gods, and how his word was the law. They taught her to read and write by transcribing Walkena's holy word so that it could be spread across the whole Mwangi Expanse. Sihar remembers sneaking deeper into the temple with other orphans, finding statues, scripture, and paintings of the Old Sun Gods. As she learned more about them, she realized that their teachings were not the same as Walkena's—that his views on justice and punishment were warped, blasphemous corruptions of the Old Sun Gods' teachings.

Sihar remembers when as a teen, her best friend, fellow orphan and childhood crush—a sweet happy girl that everyone knew as Mouse—sold Sihar out to the priests after Mouse herself was caught sneaking out late at night. She remembers running away before the priests could get to her, living on the streets, stealing and scavenging what she could to eat. She remembers Mouse being executed by Walkena. She remembers the awful tears she wept for her companion and betrayer.

Sihar remembers when she chose her name, in honor of the Old Sun Gods, when she started using feminine pronouns and started to fully live as a woman. She remembers leaving the city, working as a mercenary and adventurer for close to two decades. When she had amassed enough money and allies, she made her way back to Mzali and established the Bright Lions, to spread the word of the Old Sun Gods and to one day overthrow Walkena.

# BRIGHT LIONS The Bright Lions' members are numerous, but some integral players hold great importance both in the organization and to Sihar personally as well. Sihar's most trusted lieutenant, fiercest warrior, and rumored lover is **Sewell** (N female human rebel general), a large and muscular woman who always has a smile on her face

and a lance at her side. While Sihar is the Bright Lions' leader, Sewell is second in command, leading most of the Bright Lions military attacks.

The backbone of the Bright Lions' relationship with the people of Mzali is **Azeeko** (LG male human cook), an old, bearded man with a burly frame who runs a tavern called the Golden Mouse—one of the Bright Lions' headquarters, for those in the know. For all others, the tavern is simply a place to find a decent bed, a good drink, and a home-cooked meal, even for those who don't have enough coin.

The eyes and ears of the Bright Lions outside of Mzali are coordinated by the halfling spy **Xor Beannich** (CG nonbinary halfling scout), who met Sihar while the future founder of the Bright Lions was working as a mercenary. With Walkena showing displeasure at the recently liberated nation of Vidrian, Xor has been attempting to gain a hearing with prominent Vidric officials such as Avarneus and Shimali Manux, both to offer a warning and in hopes of gaining allies in the fight against the child god. Xor also handles the subtle and dangerous work of keeping their fellow revolutionaries well-provisioned.

The Bright Lions are always looking for brave souls to help them smuggle weapons and supplies into the city. Not only do their agents need to enter Mzali undetected, but once inside, they need to make sure the secret police don't suspect where these valuable stockpiles are kept. In particular, alchemical weapons are always in high demand by active Bright Lions.

# RIGHTEOUS HERESY Sihar plans regularly scheduled attacks against Walkena, his many servants, and their religious infrastructure both in and outside Mzali. Inside the city, the Bright Lions work to disrupt daily operations and demonstrations of Walkena's power, such as interfering with public executions. The Bright Lions have gotten the procedure of their raids down to a science. Their constant duty is to defend the oppressed, which often involves daring rescues followed by close escapes, after which they must hide themselves and those they rescued either in one of their hidden bases of operation or somewhere outside the city. Equally vital to the organization is the task of convincing others whenever possible to join the cause. Walkena has forces outside the city as well to spread his rule across the Mwangi Expanse, and scattered bands of Bright Lions often follow to subtly sabotage supply lines and harry troops.

Yet violence is not the only method that Sihar uses to undermine Walkena's rule. As a scholar and expert on the Old Sun Gods, Sihar hopes that spreading their word among the people of Mzali will remind citizens of the kinder deities that once watched over the city, and help foment discontent with Walkena's malicious rule. She also hopes to see her patrons become known in other lands and among other people, so that if the worst happens and the Bright Lions are wiped out, the Old Sun Gods will still be honored. During her time at the Magaambya, she unearthed detailed information and theories on where to find ancient texts and relics within the depths of Mzali's temples—but retrieving them is considered too dangerous and is not a top priority for the Bright Lions themselves to investigate. Those who can convince Sihar they are trustworthy enough to return any recovered holy items may get her to divulge the location of said treasures. For those who succeed, Sihar can offer not only gold, but something more valuable: her gratitude and favor.

# OLD SUN GODS Although once mostly forgotten, the Old Sun Gods have slowly been brought back to the people of Mzali thanks to Sihar and the Bright Lions. The following entries include two elements introduced in _Pathfinder Lost Omens Gods & Magic_. Alternate domains are described on pages _7–8_ of _Gods & Magic_ and can be selected using the

## PEOPLE OF NOTE Avarneus (page 22), Janatimo (page 60), Shimali Manux (page 96)

# THE LION'S PRIDE **Azeeko:** The old cook can most often be found in the kitchen making food—bread in particular—which he distributes to the poor. This generosity has led to Azeeko having the ear of the lowest among the low, and he has used this inroad to gather information and spread word of the Bright Lions' achievements. At least for now, Walkena's enforcers have yet to come knocking.

Sewell: A Mzali native who left the city with her family as a child, Sewell met Sihar when they were both working as mercenaries. Sihar explained her mission and her vision of a prosperous Mzali that didn't torture its own citizens, one guided by compassion and greatness, not cruelty. Sewell laughed at Sihar's goals, saying such a thing was impossible, but said she would join if Sihar beat her in an arm-wrestling contest. Sihar did, and since then Sewell has been completely dedicated to Sihar and her mission. Sihar relies on Sewell and trusts her above anyone else, even if Sewell is far quicker to jump to violence than the more prudent Sihar.

**Xor Beninch:** Xor was the child of foreign merchants who had hired the mercenary company Sihar was a part of at the time, to serve as guards. During their journey they were constantly attacked by monstrous creatures and bandits. By the end of the trip, Xor's parents were done with all of the dangers of a traveling life, but Xor was hooked. They begged to stay behind and train under Sihar and some of the other mercenaries. When it was time for Sihar to go back to Mzali, with

for Sihar to go back to Mzali, with plans of founding the Bright Lions, Xor was ready to help. But Mzali's fascistic policies against non-Mwangi peoples made it almost impossible for a halfling to enter, let alone live in, the city-state. Wanting to be part of the Bright Lions but not being able to operate safely in the city, Xor used their agility and quick thinking to become the group's spymaster, organizing and leading their allies outside Mzali. They are the first point of contact with the Bright Lions and Sihar herself.

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z

ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

## WALKENA, THE CHILD GOD Over a century ago, the city-state of Mzali was largely in disarray. Yet one day, a group of priests discovered the mummified body of Walkena in an old temple. The discovery attracted attention

not only from pilgrims from every corner of the Mwangi Expanse but also from Sargavan colonists determined to conquer the city and plunder its riches. Before the Sargavan armies could reach Mzali, however, Walkena suddenly rose from the dead. The child-mummy brought down sunfire on the attackers, and then declared himself ruler of the city. The people of Mzali thought that they would finally live in a paradise, but the child god's short temper, unreasonable laws, and apparent desire to conquer his fellow Mwangi quickly proved that such a hope was not in Mzali's future.

Expanded Domain Initiate feat from that book (*Gods & Magic* 8). Divine ability boosts are gained by selecting the raised by belief background (*Gods & Magic* 9).

Chohar, the Sun God of Noon [LG] The Lion God of justice, loyalty, and work. He is most commonly depicted as a golden lion with a sun for a mane. Some priests of Walkena claim that the child god is a descendant of Chohar, because of their shared love of justice—yet Walkena's justice is vindictive and cruel, while Chohar's is one of duty. Edicts finish any and all tasks you accept, bring those who are cruel to justice, show pride in your home and your heritage

Anathema break your word, be cruel to the innocent, rebuke someone due to their homeland Follower Alignments LG, LN, NG

Devotee Benefits Divine Font *heal* Divine Ability Strength or Charisma Divine Skill Intimidation Favored Weapon starknife Domains cities, family, fire, sun Alternate Domains duty, toil (*Pathfinder Adventure Path #148* 63), vigil, zeal Cleric Spells 1st: *burning hands*, 3rd: *fireball*, 4th: *fire shield*

Luhar, the Sun Goddess of Dusk [LN] The Lioness Goddess of death, dreams, and destiny. She is most commonly depicted as a lioness with the head of a human woman, dark skinned with bright eyes. Edicts learn about the night and prepare yourself to face its creatures and dangers, always make time for sleeping and dreams, ensure others never go to sleep scared Anathema stay up all night without any breaks for sleeping or dreaming, attack a person or creature while they sleep, leave a badly wounded opponent alive and suffering Follower Alignments LG, LN, LE

Devotee Benefits Divine Font harm Divine Ability Dexterity or Wisdom Divine Skill Stealth Favored Weapon spiked chain Domains cities, darkness, dreams, sun Alternate Domains fate, soul, star, zeal Cleric Spells 1st: sleep, 3rd: invisibility sphere, 5th: shadow walk

Tlehar, the Sun Goddess of Dawn [NG] The Lioness Goddess of iron, love, and rebirth. She is most commonly depicted as human but with the head of a lioness, her fur a dull gray and her eyes black as night. Edicts give yourself fully to everything you attempt, always maintain hope that tomorrow will be a better day, treasure every gift you are given by those who matter to you Anathema lose your motivation to your regrets, spread despair, treat a loved one poorly Follower Alignments LG, NG, CG

Devotee Benefits Divine Font heal Divine Ability Intelligence or Charisma Divine Skill Crafting Favored Weapon morningstar Domains cities, healing, passion, sun Alternate Domains change, creation, vigil, zeal Cleric Spells 1st: soothe, 3rd: enthrall, 5th: dreaming potential