# TAARGICK

# TAARGICK'S LEGACY While Taargick is a mythical figure among the dwarves of Avistan and Garund, he is not as well-known among dwarves in other parts of Golarion. During the Quest for Sky, many dwarf clans went in their own directions in hopes of finding a more suitable route to reach Golarion's surface. Over the centuries, these clans lost contact with the main group that emerged in the Inner Sea region and eventually completed the quest independently. As a result, the dwarves of Arcadia, Tian Xia, and Casmaron each have their own stories and heroes, though they recognize Taargick's importance to the Inner Sea region.

# TAARGICK ## FIRST HIGH KING OF THE DWARVES, KING OF SKY **LG MALE DWARF ARISTOCRAT** Taargick is the most famous and storied of all dwarven rulers in the Inner Sea region, for he united the dwarf clans, founded the kingdom of Tar Taargadth, oversaw the completion of the Quest for Sky, and designed many of the first Sky Citadels.

The mighty dwarven leader known as Taargick was born in the Darklands in –5293 AR, the night the Starstone crashed into the surface world. His mother was Hilgart, a military commander and war oracle for the dwarven nation of Felgunn, one of a dozen or more subterranean kingdoms ruled by dwarves at the time. When Earthfall struck and many dwarves—taking this as a divine sign from Torag—called for a start to the Quest for Sky, most Felgunn citizens resisted the call, but Hilgart was not among them. Infant Taargick on her hip, she marched forth within days of Earthfall.

Thus, Taargick grew up always on the move, born to a life of constant struggle and divinely mandated hardship. As he came into maturity, Taargick wished to be a warrior, but his mother insisted he learn many different skills. She ensured he was trained in diplomacy, engineering, logistics, and religious rites and doctrines along with his martial training. Because he was clever, strong, and courageous, Taargick was often assigned to work groups when major issues arose in moving an entire people in an endless march, and he became well known and liked over his first two and a half centuries of life.

At the Battle of Basalt Grimm in –5153 AR, the united dwarven front was ambushed by a massed orc horde. Having been relentlessly driven from their homes and forced further and further toward the surface by the marching dwarven host, scores of orc clans found their hatred of the dwarves a bond strong enough to band together. The dwarven vanguard collapsed, and orc raiders struck deep behind the dwarven front lines. Thousands of dwarven civilians, children, and elders were slain, including Hilgart. The dwarves were overcome by shame and anger, and abandoned the Quest for Sky to pursue vengeance against all orcs. logo: stylized stone tower with gold trim, blue banners, and a small window

Without the unity of their shared mission, various dwarven factions began to press for greater control of the once-mobile nation's resources. For the first several years of this time, Taargick was as obsessed with vengeance as his compatriots. But as time passed, dwarven factions began to vocally suggest settling where they were, or even returning to their original homes. Taargick was horrified at the idea that all the suffering and work the dwarven people had undertaken might be put aside without accomplishing their divinely mandated goal and began passionately speaking in favor of a the Quest for Sky.

His deep connections to different dwarf factions served Taarqick in good stead, and many flocked to his call. They named themselves after him, calling the alliance Tar Taargadth. Over a few years, this alliance grew, in large part due to Taarqick's reputation as a hard-working, brave dwarf of skill and determination. When Taarqick began the work of actually mobilizing the dwarves once again, however, some well-entrenched factions refused his call and challenged his right to rule. Taarqick called out the leader of the largest of these factions, Hrungul Ironeye, to a trial by single combat, which Taarqick narrowly won. Hrungul became one of Taarqick's most fervent supporters and sent his own guards to "escort" other recalcitrant dwarven elders to a ceremony where Taarqick was named High King of the nation of Tar Taargadth, the first dwarf to ever hold such a title.

With renewed purpose, the dwarves of Tar Taargadth completed the Quest for Sky within a year, discovering they had paused within a thousand feet of the surface.

# SKY CITADELS Following the successful conclusion to the Quest for Sky, Taargick set about attempting to ensure the dwarven kingdom could survive the new dangerous and harsh conditions of the surface world. He drew about him the greatest minds he could find, dwarf and surface-dweller alike, to design massive fortresses that came to be called Sky Citadels. Each of these was the pinnacle of dwarven engineering, architecture, science, and military strategy, designed to serve as fortress, administrative center, city, academy and, in times of great risk, final redoubt.

The first Sky Citadel to be designed was Koldukar, built at one of the sites where the dwarves emerged onto the surface of Golarion. Taargick himself surfaced and saw the sky for the first time at this location, and he intended to make it the center of the kingdom of Tar Taargadth. It was from here Taargick ruled over the nation that bore his name during the height of its success. But they were also years of endless conflict, much of it with Darklands creatures that had been driven before the dwarven march, and Taargick's name was among the most hated by those displaced peoples.

The second Sky Citadel was Dongun Hold, far to the south of the dwarven emergence point on the surface and built as part of an alliance with Osirion. Taarigk envisioned Dongun Hold as the first of many far-flung outposts of Tar Taargadth, connected to one another by tunnels through the upper reaches of Nar-Voth, the uppermost layer of the Darklands. Because Dongun Hold was so far removed from central Tar Taargadth, it was assigned to one of Taarigk's most trusted generals to command, the Mistress-of-Fire Arnhild Arunak.

As Taargick approached an impressive 600th year, a grand tomb was built for him in Koldukar, but the aged High King feared entombing him within it would subject the first Sky Citadel to endless attacks by those who hated his legacy. Instead he abdicated the throne, donned his old adamantine armor, and marched off to find a place to die and be buried in obscurity. Despite his sacrifice, long after Taargick's reign ended, Koldukar fell to orc invaders, who renamed it Urgir and claimed it as the capitol of their own nation.

# ECHOES FROM THE ANCESTORS Taargick remains one of the most revered and beloved of dwarven heroes millennia after his death. His name can inspire dwarves of every heritage, and still rouse anger in traditional enemies of dwarvenkind. A single scrap of adamantine armor with the dwarven runes for the King of Sky has turned up in a small market hidden in the alleys of Absalom, supposedly sold by an adventurer who took it from an orc bandit's corpse. The location of Taargick's final resting place remains unknown, and if orcs have breached that holy site, it is imperative it be located and reconsecrated so the first High King may rest in peace.

And in Dongun Hold, a long sealed-away library was uncovered as High King Anong Arunak prepared the undercity as a shelter for a potential war, and the last papers of Taargick were found. They included a long missive where Taargick admitted his regrets for not seeking a more peaceful solution to the war that drove the orcs from their homeland, and a wish that an orc king existed that Taargick could send his apologies to. High King Anong Arunak thinks she may have found one in Overlord Ardax of Ugrir, yet ponders her next course of action, knowing that such a letter could prove more explosive than the gunpowder in her citadel's stores.

## PEOPLE OF NOTE Anong Arunak (page 14), Ardax the White-Hair (page 16)

# STRANGE TRUTHS The location of the original homeland of Taargick, Felgunn, has long been lost to time—but an ancient sliver of map on a clay tablet suggests it is located deep below Hagegraf, a major duergar city itself beneath the Five Kings Mountains. The same tablet claims Hagegraf was first named "New Felgunn," which would suggest some dwarves of Felgunn, including some closely related to Taargick, rejected the Quest for Sky and may have been among the first to become duergar. The proof of duergar related to Taargick would send a shock wave through dwarf society, and an expedition would surely be assembled to prove or disprove the theory.