# Thira Ash-Eyes

# THIRA ASH-EYES ## LINNORM KING OF THE THANELANDS N FEMALE HUMAN MAGUS "I am leaving for Valenhall," Sveinn Blood-Eagle said. He spoke quietly, as if to himself. The crackle of fire in the hearth was almost louder than he was. "I will be announcing it in two days." Thira tensed at the words. She closed the scroll she was reading and looked up at her father, standing by the window and looking at the horizon as if he could see Valenhall already. "Then..." she started, but paused. She knew her father well enough. If he had spoken it, then his mind was set. "Then I wish you safe travels," she said instead. She stood up, grabbing her book and her sword. "Are you certain of your choice still?" he asked as Thira reached the door. "You think my brothers more capable?" she asked. "You know I don't," he said, turning to face her. "I only question your choice of prey. The message you will send." Thira stood by the door and looked at him. She could see worry in his eyes, though he wasn't looking at her. He was looking past her. "Do you remember my duel with Josvein all those years ago?" Thira spoke. "Over his mockery when we returned from some hunt?" The hint of a fond smile appeared on her father's face. "I do not remember the hunt itself anymore," Thira continued. "What I do remember is how soundly I thrashed that boy, and how it didn't matter. I was called a cheater for fighting smarter, since I knew I was not as strong. A cheater for using every advantage I had." Sveinn shook his head and looked back out the window. "I paid attention after that. I kept my ears open. I understood. Not only was I raised in the shadows of your heroics and grand accomplishments, but I was also never the tallest and strongest child. Whoever thought of me did not think of Thira Ash-Eyes. They thought of a traitor and a witch. They thought of Sveinn Blood-Eagle's weakling daughter." "You are no weakling," Sveinn said. "No traitor. And no witch." "What I am doesn't matter. When our own people, the so-called friends I grew up with think of me that way, what chance is there that another linnorm king will ever respect me?" Sveinn let the silence stay for a few moments. "I worked hard to earn our lands the respect they deserve," he finally said. "And I will make sure that respect isn't lost," Thira replied. "I will be climbing uphill in a blizzard, but I promise I have thought about every step. We will need a strong and sturdy image when you leave, even if it has to be unfriendly at first." With that, Sveinn nodded with a deep sigh, and Thira left the room. She gathered her traveling gear and was quietly out of Kalsgard before the light of dawn. ## CHALLENGE Thira walked through the snow in the manner the Varki ranger had shown her when she had shared a meal and a span of time with him at his camp. He was Nankou, he had said, and he had slain his own linnorm to lay claim to the throne of Icemark. She had not heard of his victory, she said, but would take word of it to the Thanelands and from there let it spread beyond. She said nothing of his heritage, and what the Ulfen people might think of Nankou taking the title. He said nothing of her father. Thira liked him for that. She had spent a good amount of time researching her plans, focusing on the king whom other kings scouted for, White Estrid. While learning about

THIRA ASH-EYES

White Estrid's accomplishments and rise to power, Thira had come to respect the other woman as a ruler and as an accomplished leader, but Thira could already see the ugly comparisons that would be drawn between the two of them. And so, Thira had chosen White Estrid as the target of her message to the world of her own power and strength.

Knowing White Estrid's attachment to her crag linnorm and her controversial choice of keeping it as a pet rather than killing it, Thira had spent a great deal of time and effort hunting another of its kind. The crag linnorm Thira had tracked and found months ago was asleep when she arrived at its lair. The temptation to cut its head off in its sleep was strong, but she was well aware she couldn't do that. It would have to be an honest, one-on-one fight. Thira closed her eyes, going through the magic she had at hand and keeping her plan in mind. With a deep breath, she jumped down, sword at the ready, the runes on her face glowing bright. The linnorm's orange eyes opened and quickly focused on her.

"Do you have a name?" Thira shouted, her voice echoing in the cavern. The linnorm rose, its head reaching up high and looking down at Thira. "Zahasha," it said with a hiss, letting the sound drag on. "I am Thira Ash-Eyes, and I will kill you for my right to rule."

The linnorm seemed amused as it lunged for her. Thira dodged aside and let a bright green ray of light fly off her sword to strike the linnorm. Panic quickly set in behind Zahasha's eyes as smoke rose from the horrific wound left by the spell. The linnorm's stance changed, from a hunter toying with its food to prey fighting for survival. It rushed her again, and this time Thira let her guard down, letting the claws rake across her body. She could feel the bright burn as it ripped open wounds upon her arm, yet the creature was weaker than she had expected. Thira conjured another spell and then faltered for a moment; she couldn't risk destroying the linnorm's head. In that moment of hesitation, the linnorm rounded on her, its tail wrapping around her and pulling her toward its venomous teeth.

Thira took the risk, channeling powerful life-draining magic through her sword. As soon as the sword hit the linnorm's neck, the spell took effect, nearly jerking the blade from her grasp as it sank deeper. The horrified linnorm clawed at her, to no avail, as Thira pushed on. The tail let go just as the creature's head fell to the ground.

**RETURN** When she walked through the gates of Kalsgard several days later, her arms numb from the linnorm's claws and from dragging the beast's heavy head behind her, she was surrounded by whispers of doubt and disbelief. The shock and confusion that started at the gate turned to shouts of cheating and witchcraft by the time she had reached the keep. She heard her siblings' voices, Birgun Whale-Eater and Yngvilda the Bold, those who had squabbled for power when their father departed. By the time she arrived at the castle doors, one voice was loudest above all. Uldren Orcsbane, her eldest brother and the most ambitious of her siblings, who had always been among the first to discredit her. She slowly turned to face him, and the crowd quieted down.

"If you don't believe me, bring a priest to the throne room, and I will recount the whole fight before the judgment of the gods. "After that, however, you will apologize to your king."

PEOPLE OF NOTE Baba Yaga (page 30), Birgun Whale-Eater (CN human male bard), Nankou (page 88), Sveinn Blood-Eagle (CN male human barbarian), Uldren Orcsbane (CN human male barbarian), White Estrid (page 116), Yngvilda the Bold (LN female human fighter)

# UNFINISHED BUSINESS For years Thira's father, Sveinn Blood-Eagle, plotted to strike out against the nation of Irrisen and reclaim the land Baba Yaga had taken from the linnorm kings. Knowing his years were growing short, Sveinn had recently been increasing his preparations, spurred on by news of the fall of the winter queen and the change in rulership. Yet Sveinn abandoned his plan and sailed across

the sea to the land of Valenhall, leaving his grand mission unfulfilled. His actions sent a ripple of confusion through the Thanelands, with many wondering aloud what reasons could have caused Sveinn to so depart. Some blame underhanded tactics from Baba Yaga and her daughters or treachery

from Sveinn's heirs; others quietly suggest an unromantic villain such as a stroke or heart attack finally laid the old warrior low. Thira Ash-Eyes might know, but that would require her peers to ask her opinion, and to thereby accept that Sveinn considered her worthy of keeping his counsel where others were not.