# Toulon Vidoc

White Estrid's accomplishments and rise to power, Thira had come to respect the other woman as a ruler and as an accomplished leader, but Thira could already see the ugly comparisons that would be drawn between the two of them. And so, Thira had chosen White Estrid as the target of her message to the world of her own power and strength.

Knowing White Estrid's attachment to her crag linnorm and her controversial choice of keeping it as a pet rather than killing it, Thira had spent a great deal of time and effort hunting another of its kind. The crag linnorm Thira had tracked and found months ago was asleep when she arrived at its lair. The temptation to cut its head off in its sleep was strong, but she was well aware she couldn't do that. It would have to be an honest, one-on-one fight. Thira closed her eyes, going through the magic she had at hand and keeping her plan in mind. With a deep breath, she jumped down, sword at the ready, the runes on her face glowing bright. The linnorm's orange eyes opened and quickly focused on her.

"Do you have a name?" Thira shouted, her voice echoing in the cavern. The linnorm rose, its head reaching up high and looking down at Thira. "Zahasha," it said with a hiss, letting the sound drag on. "I am Thira Ash-Eyes, and I will kill you for my right to rule."

The linnorm seemed amused as it lunged for her. Thira dodged aside and let a bright green ray of light fly off her sword to strike the linnorm. Panic quickly set in behind Zahasha's eyes as smoke rose from the horrific wound left by the spell. The linnorm's stance changed, from a hunter toying with its food to prey fighting for survival. It rushed her again, and this time Thira let her guard down, letting the claws rake across her body. She could feel the bright burn as it ripped open wounds upon her arm, yet the creature was weaker than she had expected. Thira conjured another spell and then faltered for a moment; she couldn't risk destroying the linnorm's head. In that moment of hesitation, the linnorm rounded on her, its tail wrapping around her and pulling her toward its venomous teeth.

Thira took the risk, channeling powerful life-draining magic through her sword. As soon as the sword hit the linnorm's neck, the spell took effect, nearly jerking the blade from her grasp as it sank deeper. The horrified linnorm clawed at her, to no avail, as Thira pushed on. The tail let go just as the creature's head fell to the ground.

**RETURN** When she walked through the gates of Kalsgard several days later, her arms numb from the linnorm's claws and from dragging the beast's heavy head behind her, she was surrounded by whispers of doubt and disbelief. The shock and confusion that started at the gate turned to shouts of cheating and witchcraft by the time she had reached the keep. She heard her siblings' voices, Birgun Whale-Eater and Yngvilda the Bold, those who had squabbled for power when their father departed. By the time she arrived at the castle doors, one voice was loudest above all. Uldren Orcsbane, her eldest brother and the most ambitious of her siblings, who had always been among the first to discredit her. She slowly turned to face him, and the crowd quieted down.

"If you don't believe me, bring a priest to the throne room, and I will recount the whole fight before the judgment of the gods. "After that, however, you will apologize to your king."

PEOPLE OF NOTE Baba Yaga (page 30), Birgun Whale-Eater (CN human male bard), Nankou (page 88), Sveinn Blood-Eagle (CN male human barbarian), Uldren Orcsbane (CN human male barbarian), White Estrid (page 116), Yngvilda the Bold (LN female human fighter)

# UNFINISHED BUSINESS For years Thira's father, Sveinn Blood-Eagle, plotted to strike out against the nation of Irrisen and reclaim the land Baba Yaga had taken from the linnorm kings. Knowing his years were growing short, Sveinn had recently been increasing his preparations, spurred on by news of the fall of the winter queen and the change in rulership. Yet Sveinn abandoned his plan and sailed across

the sea to the land of Valenhall, leaving his grand mission unfulfilled. His actions sent a ripple of confusion through the Thanelands, with many wondering aloud what reasons could have caused Sveinn to so depart. Some blame underhanded tactics from Baba Yaga and her daughters or treachery

from Sveinn's heirs; others quietly suggest an unromantic villain such as a stroke or heart attack finally laid the old warrior low. Thira Ash-Eyes might know, but that would require her peers to ask her opinion, and to thereby accept that Sveinn considered her worthy of keeping his counsel where others were not.

# MISSING IN ACTION Lictor Vidoc has pressed his agents to determine whether there are any survivors of the Order of the Coil in Vidrian who might be debriefed about that Order's fate. The Order of the Scourge suspects that the Coil may have overstepped its bounds, and thus their interest is not to visit retribution on Vidrian's revolutionaries. However, because of the Coil's past abuses, Hellknights are unwelcome in Vidrian. Accordingly, Lictor Vidoc has been forced to work through intermediaries.

TOULON VIDOC

LEADER OF THE ORDER OF THE SCOURGE LN MALE HUMAN HELLKNIGHT The charming, capable Lictor Toulon Vidoc is the leader of the Hellknight Order of the Scourge, the oldest Hellknight order and the one perhaps most often at odds with Cheliax's ruling houses. The Order of the Scourge is dedicated to apprehending criminals of every stripe, from street toughs and isolated serial killers to corrupt merchants and casually murderous aristocrats who use their positions to cover their crimes. In Cheliax, investigating the misdeeds of the powerful often ends poorly for the investigator, but Lictor Vidoc's deft political maneuvering and the long list of nobles who owe him personal favors have given the Scourge Hellknights a relatively free hand to pursue their duties. Without the lictor's influence, it is likely that the Order of the Scourge would have run afoul of House Thrune long ago.

Toulon Vidoc was born to a prosperous merchant family in Egorian. He joined the dottari as a youth, but as he was not of the nobility, his prospects for advancement were slim. Nevertheless, he applied himself energetically to the work, learning investigative techniques and developing the beginnings of an informant network that would serve him throughout his career. Whenever the young dottari encountered someone who took policing seriously, he applied himself to learning whatever he could from such masters, irrespective of their rank or background. This made him an anomaly in Egorian's status-obsessed society, where one's family name was often more important than one's deeds.

Vidoc left the dottari after two of his cases ended in frustration. In the first, he uncovered a nest of Skinsaw cultists who had been murdering slum dwellers in Egorian. He believed—and believes to this day—that Asmodean aristocrats used the cult killings to cover their own murders, which were attributed to the Skinsaw cult and the cases officially closed despite Vidoc's protests. He still wonders who those Asmodeans were, and why his superiors were so adamant that the case be closed.

The second case struck closer to home. Vidoc's parents were ruined when a ship in which they'd been heavily invested was seized by pirates in the Shackles. The cargo was lost along with all hands—an unusual level of savagery that tipped Vidoc off to the probability that the massacre was meant to cover something. Vidoc began investigating and soon determined that a competitor had deliberately betrayed the ship's route and defenses to ensure that his own ship's cargo would be the only one to arrive safely, thereby tripling his profits. However, the conspirators in the Shackles were no ordinary pirates but something far worse, and not remotely human. figure: partial image of a black and red object or creature appears in the left margin, partially visible and cut off.

Before Vidoc could finish his investigation, it was shut down unceremoniously. Egorian's dottari had no authority to investigate anything in the Shackles. His personal interest, given the loss of his parents' fortune, made his involvement suspect. And the Egorian merchant who had orchestrated the scheme died suddenly, under mysterious circumstances, leaving no culprit left to bring to justice in Cheliax.

# THE ROAD TO HELL Frustrated, Vidoc left the dottari and joined the Order of the Scourge. Here, his lack of noble ancestry posed no obstacle, and he rose quickly through the ranks. Toulon Vidoc rapidly developed a reputation for precise thinking, dogged determination, and tremendous personal courage. His years navigating Egorian's politics also left him far more adept at manipulating the levers of power than most Hellknights could ever be.

Within less than a decade, Vidoc rose from a rank-and-file Hellknight to lictor. He shaped the Hellknights under his command in his own image, constantly exhorting them to develop new policing strategies, build up informant