# Ulthun II

# ENTERTAINING THE MASSES Watcher-Lord Ulthun personally vouched for all of his goblin retainers upon arriving in Absalom, resulting in a minor scandal among Absalom high society. Yet the scandal was so minor and amusing it has caused many residents of Absalom to view goblins as curiosities–which, while not ideal, is still better than as threats. It also gained Ulthun a cadre of curious and loyal Absalom goblin volunteers, though how helpful many of them are is debatable.

# ULTHUN II WATCHER-LORD IN EXILE LG MALE HUMAN PALADIN The destruction of Lastwall sometimes reminds Ulthun of his family's origins. His grandparents fled from the horrific violence of the priests of Zon-Kuthon in Nidal, arriving in Lastwall as refugees. They laid down roots in Vigil, and Ulthun was born there in 4690 AR. From an early age, Ulthun nurtured a passion for literature and history. But after forming a habit of defending other children from bullies, Ulthun grew certain that it was the duty of the powerful to protect the vulnerable. He then dedicated himself to becoming one of Lastwall's crusaders and a paladin of Iomedae, the goddess of righteous valor, justice, and honor.

In 4709 AR, however, his plans were eclipsed. Though Ulthun was only 19, the Precentors Martial of Vigil's War College elected him as the watcher-lord of Lastwall. Despite his youth, his tours of service in Belkzen proved Ulthun's unparalleled commitment to the crusaders' virtues. For the subsequent decade, Ulthun led his people with the backing of his advisors in the Precentors Martial. The people of Lastwall celebrated Ulthun as a measured ruler dedicated to social advancement and vigilant defense of Lastwall's borders. Though still a romantic at heart, Ulthun refrained from mingling with the suitors that flocked in Castle Overwatch's courtyard to vie for his attention.

During the tenth year of Ulthun's rule, Lastwall faced a calamity. In 4719 AR, Tar-Baphon, the Whispering Tyrant, broke free from his prison in Gallowspire. Craving vengeance against the nation that oversaw his imprisonment, Tar-Baphon detonated a shard of the Shield of Aroden in Vigil, vaporizing the capital city in an instant, then set his hordes of undead across the entirety of Lastwall. Ulthun fought valiantly alongside the crusaders that had once trained him, intending to die with his old comrades in accordance with the vows of self-sacrifice he had made to Iomedae over a decade past. But a group of humble goblins convinced Ulthun to stand down, begging for his help to save their tribe from the undead. Recognizing the goblins would die without someone to help them flee to safety and knowing that many knights would be too clouded by prejudice to offer assistance, the encounter reminded Ulthun that his greater duty was to his suffering people—no matter what form they took. Ulthun fled his collapsing nation with the goblins and his remaining knights at his side, vowing to one day return, bring an end to Tar-Baphon, and rebuild his home.

Almost a year has passed since the fall of Lastwall. After months of journeying, the last watcher-lord arrived in Absalom empty-handed, just as his grandparents had once arrived in Lastwall. The government of Absalom welcomed Ulthun with open arms, allowing Ulthun to establish a makeshift embassy in the Precipice Quarter, a neighborhood that had been nearly annihilated by an earthquake. Ulthun now works to revitalize the Precipice Quarter, building a community for refugees grieving the loss of their home. With each passing week, more newcomers arrive, all seeking to assist the survivors of Lastwall.

The displaced ruler now gathers his strength in preparation for the reclamation of his nation. Ulthun provides shelter to other refugees, spins stories to win over new allies, and

negotiates to secure the materials and transportation they'll need for the coming war. Yet, a surfeit of doubts and guilt lies underneath his efforts. Even as Ulthun wonders if the fall of Lastwall grew out of his own shortcomings, he questions whether he still holds enough faith in Iomedae's pure ideals to see him through. But, with each dawn, Ulthun pushes past his inner turmoil, as the return of Tar- Baphon presents a threat far beyond such petty matters.

# LORD IN EXILE Though Ulthun has done his best to remain a steady pillar in these trying times, his pain, frustration, and regret are not demons that can be banished by a sword. It is clear to most of his entourage that the watcher-lord has sublimated much of his frustration into reclaiming the Precipice Quarter, using what small victories he can claim as a balm for the defeats he's suffered. Those knights closest to him worry about his psyche and health, especially after Ulthun uncovered and killed a manipulative undead creature known as a lovelorn that seemed to be drawn to him. While Ulthun tries to seek out help when the burden becomes too much, his status as a public figure in the eye of the world has left him sorely without confidants.

The current acting primarch of Absalom, Wynsal Starborn, has proven a steadfast friend in these trying times. Both men have committed their lives to military service, and more importantly, Wynsal Starborn gave Ulthun and his people a home when they came to Absalom utterly destitute. Though Ulthun genuinely cares for his brother-in-arms, he also hopes that his relationship with Wynsal will pave the way for a long-term relationship with Absalom's Grand Council. To this end, Ulthun actively wants Wynsal to remain the acting primarch or seek a full appointment as primarch of Absalom, even though he knows that Wynsal hopes to replace himself with a legitimate successor. Ironically, Wynsal seems to consider Ulthun II the ideal candidate for that replacement.

# THE LONG PATH FORWARD Ulthun devotes most of his time to mustering the strength needed to defeat Tar-Baphon. His efforts take a great number of forms, but three projects currently demand his attention in particular. Ulthun has heard of a group of survivors who have fled to the woods near Three Pines Ford. If the rumors are true, they are under the protection of the three dryad sisters that the town was named for. Ulthun is desperate to send agents to smuggle the survivors out of Three Pines Ford, and to secure the dryad sisters as allies against Tar-Baphon's forces.

Ulthun also hopes to send a contingent of soldiers to the port city Vellumis, where priestess **Aylunna Varvatos** (LG female human cleric of Iomedae) is still orchestrating evacuations to Absalom alongside volunteers from the Magaambya. While she has done well to maintain Vellumis's defensive perimeter, Ulthun hopes that, by bolstering her forces, Aylunna will be able to reclaim some of the surrounding territory from Tar-Baphon's army. This would allow Lastwall's forces to take the first steps toward establishing the forward bases and supply lines that they would need in the upcoming war.

In addition to rescuing his people, Ulthun is searching for powerful weapons to challenge Tar-Baphon's arcane might. With that in mind, he has turned his gaze to the half-sunken ruins of Beldrin's Bluff, which lie just off the coast of the Precipice Quarter. He plans to send a team of intrepid adventurers into the ruins to seek out an artifact of the legendary arcanist Beldrin, despite rumors of sea devils plundering Beldrin's fallen tower.

PEOPLE OF NOTE Iomedae (*Lost Omens Gods and Magic* 28), Kalabrynne and Clarethe Iomedar (page 66), Tar-Baphon (page 104), Wynsal Starborn (page 118), Zon-Kuthon (*Lost Omens Gods and Magic* 50)

# ULTHUN'S PROPAGANDA Ulthun II currently serves as the locus of Lastwall's recruitment campaign. While Ulthun remains in Absalom, telling what tales he can and glad-handing who he must to continue the flow of gold and supplies to the remains of Lastwall, the knights Kalabrynne and Clarethe lomedar serve on the front lines of the battle against the Whispering Tyrant. Kalabrynne oversees the training of recruits at Vellumis, one of the few remaining cities in the nation that still stands. She works closely with her child, Clarethe, whose boldness inspires recruits and veterans alike to decisive action. As a knight-reclaimant, Clarethe is eager to take the offensive in the war against Tar-Baphon and reclaim the ruins of Vigil, a brash move that perhaps fails to perceive how dire a threat Tar-Baphon

poses to the soldiers of Lastwall. Yet Ulthun is beginning to sympathize with Clarethe's position, as his forced role as a public fundraising figure has taught him the value of a prominent victory for the rest of the world to rally around.