# White Estrid

*Say one more thing about my head and I'll bite yours off.* –Boiltongue, to a stubbornly traditionalist Ulfen visitor

White Estrid

LINNORM KING OF THE IRONBOUND ISLANDS CN FEMALE HUMAN BARBARIAN Four fierce eyes survey the throne room of Halgrim, two belonging to a great crag linnorm and two belonging to an imposing woman seated in the center of a group of columns. Each column represents an island in her domain, the Ironbound Islands. Her royal regalia is cropped at the arms, revealing pale white skin and toned muscle. A powerful woman with white hair and pale blue eyes from her albinism, Estrid wears ornately decorated armor that covers her body thoroughly to protect her from the sunlight. Even her royal trappings are fashioned from thick leather, as she is perpetually ready to do battle. Her battle axe is always at her side, the hilt hewn from the dark rock of the Ironbound Islands. Banners around her hall depict sea creatures locked in combat with armored women. Claw motifs adorn her throne, as if when she presides over the hall, she does so from the fallen body of a great beast. This is the Linnorm King White Estrid, scoffed at by other Ulfen in her land, yet so far unchallenged in her rule.

As a young girl, Estrid joined a hearth with the intention of training as a warrior. During her time at the hearth, Estrid refined her skills with the sword as well as in sailing. After leading the fleet of longboats she sailed with on a great raid on the port of Nisroch in 4704 AR, Estrid broke through a blockade at the Arch of Aroden and ferried the raided treasure directly into the harbor at Absalom, the City at the Center of the World. Due to this and other exploits, Estrid gained a reputation as daring in the face of danger.

When tales of a crag linnorm taking up residence on one of the islands struck the ears of her crew, Estrid was the first to call for the anchor to be lifted, and the first to set off for the glory of the ultimate prize: the head of a linnorm. After tracking the creature to the mysterious Island of Ancestors, White Estrid battled fiercely with the linnorm **Boiltongue** (CE male crag linnorm). Yet in the final moments, instead of killing the monster, Estrid accepted the beast's plea to parlay and bound him to her service, agreeing to take Boiltongue alive as her thrall. Estrid returned to Halgrim to claim the title of linnorm king as her own, where Boiltongue stands behind her throne, a living trophy and avatar of her power. King Estrid also returned from the isle with a powerful weapon, though she will not share anything of its origin beyond that it was a gift from earth spirits that inhabit the island, making the elders of Halgrim uneasy about who or what Estrid is beholden to.

Despite her detractors, White Estrid is currently one of the longest-established linnorm kings. She rules with ferocity, and continually engages in military moves as well as diplomatic ones. She encourages agrarian pursuits, and due to the presence of Boiltongue, her farmlands are often the most secure—to her critics' chagrin. Estrid also encourages groups outside of the Ulfen to settle in her lands. Her subjects include orcs, half-orcs, and dwarves.

A nervous alliance between the western kingdoms of the linnorm kings has so far held, but the recent defeat of King **Opir Eightfingers** (CN male human barbarian) by the Runelord Belimarius and new rulers

in the Thanelands and Icemark have added a sense of tension to the lands. White Estrid is eager to use that tension to her advantage in building her armies, security, and wealth in the face of a changing world.

FRIEND TO THE PECULIAR Though in many ways she's an ideal Ulfen warrior in her ambition and daring, White Estrid seems to enjoy finding others who upend expectations like herself. She has heard of Nankou and has attempted to contact him directly through diplomatic channels, but her attempts have revealed that he is often away from his throne—Estrid has had the most luck in reaching Nankou's mother's household, as the new linnorm king is most often found in the tundra of his kingdom rather than his throne room. She is impressed with his tenacity and is glad to see another king breaking with traditional Ulfen assumptions. Ever an astute ruler, White Estrid also sees a potential ally in Nankou and the kingdom of Icemark, especially if there is to be a fight with Belimarius to rally together for.

Thira Ash-Eyes, who recently rose to power in the Thanelands, is a curiosity to White Estrid. King Estrid is intrigued by the fact that Thira was the one who claimed the throne of the most powerful linnorm king in the land, especially as she was not the expected successor to her father, **Sveinn Blood-Eagle** (CN male human barbarian). Estrid has not met with Thira Ash-Eyes yet, though she plans to contact the new linnorm king of Kalsgard with intentions of renewing the treaty between their kingdoms. Estrid is no fool, however—she is well aware of Thira's unstated challenge toward her in deliberately seeking the same type of linnorm that Estrid vanquished, and then in emphasizing how Thira killed it with her own strength instead of taming it with a gift from the earth. Estrid is also unsure of how Thira came to be so powerful without attracting attention before, and she's using diplomatic relations to dig further into Thira's background.

Estrid and Boiltongue's relationship remains enigmatic, though in public the linnorm always shows silent deference. Estrid is never cruel to Boiltongue, admiring the strength of the linnorm, but his subservience and his nickname of "Estrid's pet" are not kind to his pride. Boiltongue remains bitter at times about the trade of his self-determination for his life, but he also acknowledges that Estrid gained a potent strategic advantage in choosing to not strike him down. The linnorm exists in a balancing act of resentment and respect that can easily swing in either direction depending on the situation and Boiltongue's mood, but as the years have gone on and he has accepted his fate, the pendulum tends toward respect. He is a great ally to the city of Halgrim, as well as the Ironbound Islands, and roams it as a protector, a duty he even seems to enjoy providing. He speaks little, unless the validity of Estrid's claim is challenged—then he is quick to affirm that she did best him in one-on-one combat.

Estrid considers the biggest threat to her kingdom to be Runelord Belimarius; the runelord's defeat of Opir Eightfingers means that her hungry gaze can now turn to the Ironbound Islands. Estrid is wary of Belimarius' ambition and has doubled the security around her person, as well as increased the number of longboat crews that venture into the Steaming Sea on patrol. Recognizing that the runelord is attempting to goad Estrid into brash action, the linnorm king has outmaneuvered these political traps, though she knows this may not remain effective for long.

King Estrid is also keen on recruiting heroes to further explore the mysterious Island of the Ancestors. To this end, she has reached out to the Pathfinders in Iceferry Lodge, though she has proven enigmatic toward her goals or the potential contents of the island.

## PEOPLE OF NOTE Belimarius (page 34), Nankou (page 88), Thira Ash-Eyes (page 110), Torrig Banestone of Ullerskad (CN male dwarf warmage), Uldren Orcsbane (CN male human barbarian)

# BOILTONGUE'S TRAVELS *As you know, Boiltongue leaves Halgrim once every year, typically after the harvest, only to return some days later. I finally was able to convince some trackers to accept enough coin to follow the linnorm on his journey. Weeks later, only one scout returned, gravely injured.*

Unexpectedly, she reported that Boiltongue had sired children and was retuning to a hidden lair deep in the Stormspear Mountains to visit them and his mate. This information could prove invaluable. If we could slay these children and convince Boiltongue or Estrid that it was the

work of one of the newer kings, we can expect a very bloody and distracting war. This would allow us a great opportunity to unite our armies and march on the Ironbound Islands as we've discussed. This is an exciting prospect and we will discuss this more

*next time we meet.* –A letter from Torrig Banestone of Ullerskad to Uldren of Kalsgard

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z

ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX