# Wynsal Starborn

in the Thanelands and Icemark have added a sense of tension to the lands. White Estrid is eager to use that tension to her advantage in building her armies, security, and wealth in the face of a changing world.

FRIEND TO THE PECULIAR Though in many ways she's an ideal Ulfen warrior in her ambition and daring, White Estrid seems to enjoy finding others who upend expectations like herself. She has heard of Nankou and has attempted to contact him directly through diplomatic channels, but her attempts have revealed that he is often away from his throne—Estrid has had the most luck in reaching Nankou's mother's household, as the new linnorm king is most often found in the tundra of his kingdom rather than his throne room. She is impressed with his tenacity and is glad to see another king breaking with traditional Ulfen assumptions. Ever an astute ruler, White Estrid also sees a potential ally in Nankou and the kingdom of Icemark, especially if there is to be a fight with Belimarius to rally together for.

Thira Ash-Eyes, who recently rose to power in the Thanelands, is a curiosity to White Estrid. King Estrid is intrigued by the fact that Thira was the one who claimed the throne of the most powerful linnorm king in the land, especially as she was not the expected successor to her father, **Sveinn Blood-Eagle** (CN male human barbarian). Estrid has not met with Thira Ash-Eyes yet, though she plans to contact the new linnorm king of Kalsgard with intentions of renewing the treaty between their kingdoms. Estrid is no fool, however—she is well aware of Thira's unstated challenge toward her in deliberately seeking the same type of linnorm that Estrid vanquished, and then in emphasizing how Thira killed it with her own strength instead of taming it with a gift from the earth. Estrid is also unsure of how Thira came to be so powerful without attracting attention before, and she's using diplomatic relations to dig further into Thira's background.

Estrid and Boiltongue's relationship remains enigmatic, though in public the linnorm always shows silent deference. Estrid is never cruel to Boiltongue, admiring the strength of the linnorm, but his subservience and his nickname of "Estrid's pet" are not kind to his pride. Boiltongue remains bitter at times about the trade of his self-determination for his life, but he also acknowledges that Estrid gained a potent strategic advantage in choosing to not strike him down. The linnorm exists in a balancing act of resentment and respect that can easily swing in either direction depending on the situation and Boiltongue's mood, but as the years have gone on and he has accepted his fate, the pendulum tends toward respect. He is a great ally to the city of Halgrim, as well as the Ironbound Islands, and roams it as a protector, a duty he even seems to enjoy providing. He speaks little, unless the validity of Estrid's claim is challenged—then he is quick to affirm that she did best him in one-on-one combat.

Estrid considers the biggest threat to her kingdom to be Runelord Belimarius; the runelord's defeat of Opir Eightfingers means that her hungry gaze can now turn to the Ironbound Islands. Estrid is wary of Belimarius' ambition and has doubled the security around her person, as well as increased the number of longboat crews that venture into the Steaming Sea on patrol. Recognizing that the runelord is attempting to goad Estrid into brash action, the linnorm king has outmaneuvered these political traps, though she knows this may not remain effective for long.

King Estrid is also keen on recruiting heroes to further explore the mysterious Island of the Ancestors. To this end, she has reached out to the Pathfinders in Iceferry Lodge, though she has proven enigmatic toward her goals or the potential contents of the island.

## PEOPLE OF NOTE Belimarius (page 34), Nankou (page 88), Thira Ash-Eyes (page 110), Torrig Banestone of Ullerskad (CN male dwarf warmage), Uldren Orcsbane (CN male human barbarian)

# BOILTONGUE'S TRAVELS *As you know, Boiltongue leaves Halgrim once every year, typically after the harvest, only to return some days later. I finally was able to convince some trackers to accept enough coin to follow the linnorm on his journey. Weeks later, only one scout returned, gravely injured.*

Unexpectedly, she reported that Boiltongue had sired children and was retuning to a hidden lair deep in the Stormspear Mountains to visit them and his mate. This information could prove invaluable. If we could slay these children and convince Boiltongue or Estrid that it was the

work of one of the newer kings, we can expect a very bloody and distracting war. This would allow us a great opportunity to unite our armies and march on the Ironbound Islands as we've discussed. This is an exciting prospect and we will discuss this more

*next time we meet.* –A letter from Torrig Banestone of Ullerskad to Uldren of Kalsgard

LEGENDS INTRODUCTION A–G H–M N–Z

ENTWINED DESTINIES GLOSSARY AND INDEX

# CHANGING OF THE GUARD _Legends_ assumes that Absalom's army narrowly routed Tar-Baphon's forces in the Tyrant's Grasp Adventure Path. Though the captain of the First Guard, Lord **Rothos of House Vastille** (LN male human fighter), fared better than countless other heroes, he was struck with so many wounds and curses that he was forced to retire. His successor is First Siege Gear **Chun Hye Seung** (CG female human engineer), the master engineer formerly in charge of the city's defenses.

WYNSAL STARBORN

# ACTING PRIMARCH OF ABSALOM LG MALE HUMAN FIGHTER To Chun Hye Seung, Captain of the First Guard and Commander Militant of Absalom: Greetings, my friend. Seeing your title written out in full at the top of a missive from the primarch must seem strange. I should know; it was the case when I served as captain, too. Congratulations on your promotion. It is well earned, and my only regret is that Rothos suffered so terribly at the hands of the Whispering Tyrant to create the vacancy you now occupy. He was a good soldier and an even better commander. His reports are certainly much better organized and insightful than mine ever were, so your time reading them will be time well spent.

These are strange days, and this was brought most recently to my attention when I visited a new orphanage opening in Eastgate. It was the Hodley Manor! Over on the Stag Road, where I used to explore as a child. Someone bought the manor, it seems, and renovated it. I didn't have the heart to tell them how all the neighborhood children considered it haunted back in our day.

I can already see your eyebrows coming together in suspicion and concern. Wynsal Starborn, known for blunt forthrightness in decades of service to the First Watch, meandering into an anecdote? Have the years he spent on the Grand Council after his retirement instilled the tendency to circumlocution inherent in all politicians? Has his appointment as Acting Primarch of Absalom, Acting Siege Lord, Acting Protector of Kortos, and Acting Everything-Else-Lord-Gyr-Left- Behind-When-He-Vanished eroded his sanity in the last four years? Not at all. I just feel like I have few true confidants these days. The weight of managing a chaotic and ancient and marvelous city such as ours is crushing, but I can't publicly show it. Some say I've seized power, or engineered a military coup, and that I crave to drop the "Acting" from my title of "Acting Primarch." But you know better, that I'm driven by duty and not desire. If Lord Gyr came back today, I'd be toasting his health in the Little Roofs with my old comrades tonight.

I'm not giving up hope of finding him, or of finding another worthy successor to be primarch. Have you met Watcher-Lord Ulthun II from Lastwall? Seeing a beloved nation destroyed is the greatest burden I can imagine, and he's held up through it all. He's a paragon of resolve. If the Whispering Tyrant is to be the burden of our age, I sometimes think Ulthun should be the primarch to face him. Yet Ulthun has already lost so much to the Whispering Tyrant that perhaps that would be another cruelty heaped upon the pile. I can only hope that Ulthun has confidants in his troubles, and is right this moment penning a letter to a friend, like this one I'm writing to you, sharing his worries and weariness.

I'm far too old now to be naive, but I remain an idealist. Leaders with nobility and a sense of purpose bring out the best in those they lead. My enemies are many, from invaders jealous of Absalom's wealth to career politicians who crave more power (and, frankly, the latter are far more dangerous than the former). These enemies all have one thing in common: they believe rule by force is superior to rule by example. They are wrong.

In your new leadership role, that is probably my most critical advice. Oh, and stay away from Hodley Manor. Just in case. —Wynsal Starborn

To Chun Hye Seung, Captain of the First Guard and Commander Militant of Absalom: Greetings, my friend, though I fear I write to you in the spirit of business rather than companionship. Beside me sits an urgent missive from Pactbroker Hashim ibn Sayyid, warning me of a gnoll slaver and fugitive named Shimon-Je who is running one step ahead of the law. He believes she is traveling to Absalom and has asked us to capture Shimon-Je and return her to Katapesh to face judgment. It's well within his rights to ask, and a task I am eager to perform. You know my