# Xerbystes II, Hebizid Vraj, and Deena al-Parishat

opinions on slavery well by this point, and I am certain you will assign this to your most trustworthy agents.

There are rumors that slavery may soon fall out of favor in Katapesh. Perhaps they are just rumors, but they give me hope. The fires of abolition seem to be catching. I'm proud of my part in that, and what I've done for Absalom. Manumitting all the slaves was the only way this city repelled the Fiendflesh Siege three years ago. There is already a lot of ink spilled about the heroics of the Pathfinder Society, the power of the city's mages leaping to its defense, and the siege weapons you designed and built (and, frankly, cosseted!) in your former role as First Siege Gear. All these helped break the siege, but all of them would have failed if we didn't have the former slaves doing the backbreaking work of defense. They were doing it for themselves, for their own city, and not out of fear of a master's lash. That made all the difference, I believe. The proudest I have ever been of the Grand Council was when they declared slavery and the slave trade illegal throughout Absalom only a few weeks after my order of manumission. It goes to show that sometimes the best in anyone—or any group—comes not by ham-handed force, but by the independence to reach for great things.

In that same vein, I am pleased to say Avarneus from Vidrian has reached out to me again, with questions of diplomatic support. I am happy to give it. Although I consider revolutionaries dangerous, I understand that Vidrian is building something empowering from the ruins of something tyrannical. I support that. Perhaps I ought to introduce Avarneus to Andira Marusek on Andoran's People's Council. Certainly, the two have a common enemy in Abrogail Thrune, and keeping Cheliax in check benefits Absalom. Ah, but that's mercenary of me. These days it seems I can't help but think like that.

With regard to your report on the Spire of Nex, I've received confirmation from Venture-Captain Shevala Iorae that she and the Pathfinder Society are willing to fully cooperate with your efforts. Shevala especially should be a boon, as I doubt there are any who know more about that tower than Nex himself. Though I know better than to tell you how to do your duties for you, permit me to caution all of you to be careful, for my own peace of mind. You and I have stared down a number of sieges in recent years, but seeing the Spire so close in everyday life seems to have a pronounced effect on my worries.

Finally, to your vindication, I must at last concede to your concerns over Lictor Toulon Vidoc. I felt I had nothing to fear from his investigations—I have no political skeletons for him to ferret out from beneath my bed. But you were correct that someone has been feeding him bad evidence, even insisting that I might have had involvement in Lord Gyr's disappearance! Yet though I understand your personal stake in the matter, I reiterate that the First Guard fights Absalom's external enemies, not its internal ones. It is a heavy chain to wear, and one I knew well in my many years of service, but you must wear it. We both have our own battlefields, and you have foes enough on yours to deal with. I will handle mine. —Wynsal Starborn

PEOPLE OF NOTE Abrogail Thrune II (page 8), Andira Murasak (page 12), Avarneus (page 18), Deena al-Parishat (page 120), Lord Gyr of Gixx (N male human rogue), Hashim ibn Sayyid (page 50), Nex (page 90), Venture-Captain Shevala Iorae (N female human sorcerer), Shimon-Je (NG female gnoll abolitionist), Tar-Baphon (page 104), Toulon Vidoc (page 112), Ulthun II (page 114)

# EVERYTHING IS POLITICS Wynsal's political situation is a complex one, fitting for a city as complex as Absalom. His initial appointment was to the emergency position of siege lord, when the true primarch of Absalom was found to be missing during an assault on the city known as the Fiendflesh Siege. Wynsal was then declared acting primarch until an official replacement for the position could be found. While Wynsal is happy to cede his position to a legitimately chosen successor, his impeccable character and effective governance have led many to voice their support for Wynsal being appointed to the primarchy in truth. This popularity, especially among Wynsal's former underlings in Absalom's military forces, has caused other political hopefuls to see Wynsal as a threat to their ambitions, and rumors have been spread by the nobility that Wynsal is intending a military coup. That Wynsal has been retired from the military and serving as a politician for over a decade hardly matters, as matters of truth rarely do in politics.

I did not hear what the genie-binder said to the shahiyan, and certainly could not describe the look of wrath that fell over her face. You would not believe the insults the woman could craft, nor the speed at which she could conjure them! The merchant looked to her husband for help, but the satrap only laughed at the display. It seems the throne of Kelesh sent the one woman as disagreeable as him for a bride, may Sarenrae save us all. –overheard at a sandship caravan at the

–overheard at a sandship caravan at the Katheer marketplace

Xerbystes II, Hebizid Vraj, and Deena al-Parishat

A Note Attached to a Heavy Purse *Steadfast One,*

Please convey this gift to our bellicose friends in Canal Row. They will be concerned to learn of the Satrapian Guard exercises near Delenah, no doubt. A show of force would prove that Taldor's recent internal troubles have not weakened the empire's resolve. Once knowledge of the provocations in Golsifar becomes widespread, the Senate will have no choice but to take military action. Qadira will react in kind. By My Own Hand, X

XERBYSTES II

SATRAP OF QADIRA N MALE HUMAN ARISTOCRAT The province of Qadira is the frontier of perhaps the largest empire in the world, but early in his training to become satrap, a young Xerystes realized that the imperial bureaucrats of the Padishah Empire of Kelesh had forgotten what a frontier is. Qadira is forever surrounded by threats, forever far from imperial aid, and forever waiting for Taldor to resume its millennia-long habit of conquering its neighbors. Despite the comfort of his upbringing in the Qahir Palace of Katheer, Xerystes never lost sight of the fact that life on the frontier meant danger.

Today, the tall, bronze-skinned satrap believes that he could end that danger permanently, and earn a place for himself in history, by executing a decisive invasion of Taldor. Unfortunately for Xerbystes's plans of conquest, the Padishah Emperor has expressly forbidden military intervention in Taldor, instead directing Vizier Hebizid Vraj to strengthen ties with Grand Princess Eutropia's new regime. Though he does have a grudging respect for Eutropia's resourcefulness in claiming the throne, Xerbystes deeply resents the meddling from the distant capital.

This interference is not the only example in Xerbystes's life on the emperor's long leash. Under threat of removal from his position, the long-time bachelor has taken a distant member of the imperial family, Deena al-Parishat, for a wife. Deena is a shahiyan, or a member of the royal family too far removed from the throne to have a more specific title. Though initially suspicious of Deena, the satrap has become intrigued by his passionate spouse, and many wonder if the new shahiyan will soon sway her husband into banning the practice of keeping mortal slaves.

While publicly Xerbystes can do little more than review the Satrapian Guard and complain about Taldan aggression, he continues to fund covert operations to heighten tensions along Qadira's northern border, hoping to goad Taldor into military action that might spiral into all-out war. Not daring to send the Peerless, his personal entourage of heroes who are all closely watched by his vizier, Xerbystes relies on dupes within Taldor or independent operators to accomplish his goals.

With much of the country's military force tied up in preparation for eventual war, Xerystes prefers to contract with mercenaries or adventurers to address domestic troubles. Recent reports of qlippoth in the Maharev Jungle, sinister cultists off the Emerald Coast, and a fiendish infestation in the Meraz Desert have caused him to put out a call for adventurers willing to hazard danger in exchange for Keleshite gold.

A Diplomatic Communiqué To Her Imperial Majesty, Grand Princess Eutropia of Taldor, I would like to extend a personal apology on behalf of Emperor Kalish XXII for the recent unpleasantness involving Trestarin Vain of Daggermark. The Qadiran coins found on his person are a transparent attempt by outsiders to reignite conflict that would weaken both of our empires. Still, we will redouble the efforts to remind citizens of our western-most satrapy that peace is mutually beneficial and mutually profitable. Speaking of which, I have enclosed draft proposals for a number of trade agreements. I trust you to guide them through the labyrinth of your Senate. Exchange of lumber and spice will do more to bind the wounds of our nations than any peace treaties or imperial edicts. Light of Dawn to You, Hebizid Vraj

HEBIZID VRAJ VIZIER OF QADIRA NG MALE HUMAN INVESTIGATOR Many Kelesh diplomats would find assignment to Katheer to be a hardship post, but Hebizid Vraj relishes his position as vizier of the empire's most isolated satrapy. Far from the imperial court, the canny Vraj enjoys almost complete autonomy. While dealing with the constant resentment of Satrap Xerbystes II is unpleasant in the extreme, the energetic vizier focuses his efforts on making the best of his situation. To Vraj, Qadira is the bridge between the Inner Sea region and the Kelesh Empire, and the best of both regions should be brought together in Katheer.

Much to the chagrin of Qadira's satrap, the Padishah Empire long ago traded military domination for economic, and much of Vraj's time is concerned with tending to the empire's extensive web of trade agreements. Whether dealing with Hashim ibn Sayyid as the chosen agent of Katapesh's Pactmasters or coaxing Taldan merchants to set aside ancient prejudices, the vizier is a shrewd bargainer. Employing a vast network of intelligence agents, Vraj ensures that he knows his partners' positions as well as his own and leverages that information to accomplish what he sees as best for the empire.

Though international relations are Vraj's primary focus, the vizier pursues opportunities to improve life for the average Qadiran. Vraj is a patron of the arts and sciences in Katheer and, in his small amount of free time, he enjoys attending lectures at the Planar Institute and the Venicaan College of Medicaments and Chirurgery. Though his efforts are currently secret, the vizier is zealously attempting to entice the great Rahadoumi healer, Kassi Aziril, to tone down her outspoken atheism enough to join the teaching staff at the Venicaan College, promising not only a substantial salary but also protection from any complications that immigration to Qadira might bring.

Many other projects within the country attract portions of Vraj's attention: he frequently seeks experienced explorers to accompany military patrols to ruins in the Meraz Desert and Zho Mountains; he gathers reports of missing persons and property for investigation by the military or independent contractors; and he recruits skilled engineers and craftspeople to complete complex public works.

Vraj's work in Qadira is the center of his life, and he is worried that any upcoming struggle over imperial succession will see him

PEOPLE OF NOTE Andira Marusek (page 12), Eutropia Stavian (page 42), Hashim ibn Sayyid (page 50), Kassi Aziril (page 70), Magdelena and Martum Fallows (page 84)

I think I sympathize with Hebizid Vraj more than is strictly healthy, and I am fortunate to have many well-spoken advisors to help me keep an acceptable level of displeasure. —Grand Princess Eutropia

# THE PEERLESS Hand-selected by Xerbystes II, this group of heroes undertakes missions into dangerous and wild places. While many of their deeds are known only to the satrap, the following heroes and their accomplishments are popular topics of gossip.

Kendesh al-Maren (LN male sylphB2 elf infiltrator) Called "The Shadow of al-Bashir," this warrior has retrieved many relics from that cursed city, using his congenital deafness as a defense against the harpies that rule there.

Misayyah (NG nonbinary human tracker) While many speculate on the age, ancestry, and gender of this scarf-shrouded tracker, no one questions their kindness; they are well-known for returning children lost in sandstorms to their families.

Paldira, the Mirage (LN male half-orc illusionist) This illusionist singlehandedly ended the gnoll siege of a town in Pashman by conjuring visions that sent the creatures screaming into the desert.

Tinari al-Yathin (N female half-elf corsair) From her ship, the *Perilous*, this young Peerless hunts the shores of the Minatory Isles, clearing the waters of cultists, monsters, and pirates.

recalled to the Kelesh capital. Not only would his departure mean many projects left unfinished, it would also likely mean war between Taldor and Qadira, as imperial oversight is the only thing standing in the way of Xerystes's plans for invasion.

A Perfumed Letter, Sent to the Imperial Capital _Dearest Cousin,_ _I must tell you, Layilah, that while Katheer is a bit of a backwater, it is not without its pleasures. The Qahir Palace would seem cramped by your standards, but it is well furnished, and the mosaic work would not be out of place at home. The satrap keeps one of the finest stables in the province, and he is an accomplished rider himself. As you know, our marriage was no love match, but I am pleased to share that interest with him._

You would not believe the horses, Laylah! Gray as mist and swift-footed as the wind, or shimmering gold and able to keep a rider warm through the coldest night on the sands. Some say the horses were a gift from genies long ago, and I believe it. The genie-touched horses here are my chief joy, but they also remind me of my chief sorrow. I know only vague rumors of the practice have reached the capital, but I cannot walk through the Grand Souk without seeing an efreeti bound in iron chains or some conjurer with his "pet" marid. Many of the nobles and merchants here keep human or halfling slaves, and slave markets operate openly in the city! It makes my blood boil. I have freed all of the palace slaves and established salaries for them, but there is much more to do. In fact, I must cut this letter short to meet with an advisor and one of the palace wizards. All of my best to you and your mother. Write me soon, Deena

DEENA AL-GHARLA ANTIM ZHAR AL-PARISHAT SHAHIYAN OF QADIRA N FEMALE HUMAN ARISTOCRAT Most people's first impression of Shahiyan Deena al-Parishat is the snap of a cloak and the thunder of hooves as she rushes through the pre-dawn streets of Katheer on the way to her morning ride through the city's outskirts. Those lucky enough to earn an audience with her speak of her frank nature and calm self-assurance. An athletic woman with warm bronze skin and copper highlights in her dark hair, al-Parishat's appearance marks her origins in central Kelesh, and, indeed, she is a recent immigrant to Qadira, having traveled from the capital of the Padishah Empire for an arranged marriage with Satrap Xerystes II. The people of Qadira have generally welcomed the newcomer, hoping that the long-awaited end to Xerystes's bachelorhood will settle questions of succession in the satrapy.

Despite the warm reception offered her, Shahiyan Deena is a polarizing figure. Her outspoken abolitionist stances have impressed the country's slaves and Sarenites as much as they have discomfited Qadiran traditionalists. At least for the moment, Xerbystes seems unconcerned by her habit of upbraiding genie binders in the streets, a fact that has endeared her new husband to her. The two also share a mutual fondness for her distant cousin **Layilah** (NG female human priestess of Sarenrae), who both believe would be an excellent candidate for heir to the Kelesh imperial throne. While she is still far from trusting her husband with her heart, or the extent of her plans about reforming Qadira, the shahiyan has found Xerbystes to be more than the warmonger she had resigned herself to marrying.

Al-Parishat has discussed some of her plans with Vizier Hebizid Vraj, who shares many of her imperial Keleshite sensibilities. On his advice, the shahiyan is cultivating allies at the Planar Institute in Katheer and recruiting agents to investigate rumors of geniekin communities in the Zho Mountains. What the vizier does not know is that she is actively seeking to make contact with the Bellflower Network, and hopes to fund clandestine efforts to undermine the Qadiran slave trade, particularly in Sedeq.